#B 1.13 Information security awareness and training
## Description 
This module describes how to build and maintain an effective information security awareness and training program.

It is only possible to successfully and efficiently realize information security within an institution if all employees recognize and accept that it is a significant and necessary factor in the success of the institution and if they are prepared to take effective action to support. For this, a safety culture and a safety awareness (awareness) must be built and maintained. Employees must be made aware of relevant hazards and how they can affect their institution. Because the more they know about it, the sooner they accept appropriate security measures. They must also have the necessary knowledge to properly understand and apply actions. In particular, they must be aware of what is expected of them in terms of information security and how they should respond in safety-critical situations.

To provide employees with the necessary knowledge, awareness-raising and training measures are also required. The aim of raising awareness of information security is to reduce employee perceptions of safety-critical situations and their impact. Through information security training, employees should acquire the necessary knowledge and skills for safety-conscious behavior.

Adequate information security should be internalized by all employees as a natural part of their work environment. This requires a long-term change in behavior in many areas, especially if information security is associated with a loss of comfort or function. Achieving sustainable results requires a continuous process. Therefore, the institution must develop and establish a consistent information security awareness and training program. It should already start with hiring employees, consider different target groups with their abilities, workflows, and resources needed, and also guide employees as their roles or positions change.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

A sensitization and training program should be tailored to the institution and take into account the culture in place (see M 3.83 Analysis of safety-related personal factors) and the level of safety required. In this context, as far as possible different and coordinated methods and media should be used.

Planning and conception

It is very important for the security process that it is actively supported by the management. For this, it must have recognized and internalized the value of information security for the goals of the institution (see M 3.44 Awareness-raising of information security management). How management can effectively support the entire lifecycle of an awareness-raising and training program is described in Action M 3.96 Awareness-raising and training management support.

This support may be. B. begin with the explicit mandate to design appropriate programs. The necessary steps are described in measures M 2.312 Conception of an Information Security Training and Awareness Program and M 2.557 Conception of an Information Security Training Program. In particular, it is important to define the target groups (see M 3.93 Analysis of target groups for awareness-raising and training programs).

procurement

In order to prepare and carry out awareness-raising and training measures, internal or external staff is needed (see M 3.48 Selection of Trainers or External Training Providers).

implementation

In the implementation phase, the employees are assigned to the previously defined target groups and target group-specific content is selected for awareness-raising and training measures (see M 3.45 Planning of training content for information security). Measures must also be implemented which make the contact persons responsible for safety issues better known to the employees (see M 3.46 Contact for safety issues).

In addition, various resources are needed for awareness-raising and training activities, such as personnel, suitable premises or special equipment. Special safety aspects to consider when designing training rooms can be found in module B 2.11 meeting, event and training rooms.

Operation, continuous care and development

The correct methods and media must be used for a successful teaching of learning (see M 2.198 Raising awareness among information security staff and M 3.47 Conducting information security planning games).

Another important component of information security training is the handling of information technology (see M 3.26 Training of personnel in the safe handling of IT and other topic-specific measures). Especially when new technologies are introduced, the employees should be informed about them in good time and made aware of potential dangers and safety measures.

In order to improve the presence of imparted learning content, methods of learning the subject can be used (see M 3.95 Learning Guidance). It should also be checked regularly whether the sensitization and training measures are successful (see M 3.94 Measurement and Evaluation of Learning Outcomes). If necessary, they must be adapted.

The following is an introduction to the information security awareness and training field.



