#B 1.5 Privacy
## Description 
The task of data protection is to protect the individual from the fact that his personal data are impaired in his right to determine himself about the disclosure and use of his data (informational right of self-determination).

Due to the close interdependence of data protection and information security, in this module on the subject of data protection, on the one hand, the basic conditions for data protection are prepared in a practical manner and, on the other, the connection to information security in IT-Grundschutz is shown.

The IT-Grundschutz module Privacy was created by the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information together with the Technical Working Group of the Federal and State Data Protection Commissioners and the Data Protection Supervision Offices of the federal states. It is aimed at private and public users of IT-Grundschutz in Germany.

Since this component is based on German legislation, it can only be implemented in this form outside of Germany. It can not be considered as part of a formal IT-Grundschutz certification

Legal framework for the processing of personal data

The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany guarantees the right of the citizens to determine themselves, in principle, about the use of their personal data. According to   1 Bundesdatenschutzgesetz (BDSG), the duty of data protection is to protect the individual from being impaired by the handling of his personal data in his personal right. The data protection laws of the states contain similar task descriptions to protect the right to informational self-determination. The entire data protection law refers only to personal data. This includes individual details of personal or material circumstances of a particular or identifiable natural person. Legal persons are not recorded.

The following statements refer exclusively to German law. The applicable law in each case depends on whether the data processing body is a public authority of the federal government, a state or a private non-public company. For public authorities of the federation and for private companies the Federal Data Protection Act applies, for public authorities of the countries the respective national data protection law. The structure of the data protection legislation is largely uniform, but the content of the regulation differs in some areas. This applies to the basic concepts of data processing, to the permissibility of data processing on the basis of a legal provision or consent and for the rights of the citizens. In addition, there are sector-specific special laws that take precedence over the regulations of the Federal and State Data Protection Acts (eg Social Code, Road Traffic Act, Reporting Laws, Police Law).

The following statements refer to the provisions of the BDSG and are therefore valid for public authorities and private companies. For public authorities in the federal states, the individual state data protection laws must be observed.

Permissibility of the collection, processing and use of personal data, country-specific features

The collection, processing and use of personal (or - available) data is only permitted if a legal provision allows or orders this or the person concerned has consented. The consent must be given regularly in writing. Prior to that, the person concerned must be informed of the purpose of the processing. It is already important as a preliminary question for the permissibility of the data processing whether personal data is actually needed. The design and selection of data processing programs must be based on the objective of collecting, processing or using as little or no personal data as possible. In particular, the possibilities of anonymisation and pseudonymisation should be used.

Furthermore, the principles of necessity and earmarking of data processing must be taken into account. Thereafter, data processing is only permitted if it is necessary for the task to be performed. Personal data that is stored solely for the purpose of data protection control, data backup or to ensure the proper operation of a data processing system may only be used for these purposes. The processing may only take place for predetermined purposes. Data collection and storage for purposes not yet defined is not permitted. Changes in purpose are possible only in the exceptional cases specified in the law. In general, it should be noted that state data protection laws in the respective contexts have different deviations, which have to be considered in detail.

Data secrecy, obligation to privacy, briefing

Persons employed in the processing of data are prohibited from collecting, processing or using personal data without authorization. In the case of non-public bodies, employees are to be obliged to maintain data secrecy when commencing their activities under   5 BDSG. In the public sector, the federal government and most countries no longer require a formal commitment. Here is an appropriate data protection information. Exemptions in the state data protection laws must be observed.

Technical and organizational measures

In order to protect the personal data, the data processing centers must take the necessary technical and organizational measures necessary to ensure that the provisions of the BDSG are complied with. In particular, the bids contained in the Annex to   9 BDSG must be observed, which specify 8 control objectives (access control, access control, access control, forwarding control, input control, order control, availability control, compliance with the purpose). The measures to be taken are not described in detail in the law, since their suitability depends on the particular application and the protection requirements of the personal data and the technical measures are subject to permanent change. The control objectives contained in the state data protection laws deviate partially from the goals of the BDSG, in some cases more abstract objectives of information security are named and the concrete implementation in security concepts is required.

Special types of data, prior checking, automated individual decisions or retrieval procedures

Does processing have particular risks to the rights and freedoms of those affected, such as: For example, the processing of special types of data (information on racial and ethnic origin, political opinion, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, health or sex life) or is intended to the person of the person concerned including his / her abilities , its performance or its behavior, prior checking must be carried out prior to the start of processing (  4d Abs. 5 BDSG). A prior check shall not be carried out if there is a legal obligation or consent of the person concerned or the collection, processing or use of the purpose of a contractual relationship or contractual trust relationship with the person concerned. In some national data protection laws, prior checking is generally required in all procedures for processing personal data by public authorities. The conditions for this can deviate from the regulations applicable at the federal level.

Decisions that entail a legal consequence or significantly affect the person concerned must not be based exclusively on automated processing that serves to evaluate individual characteristics of individuality (  6a para . 1 BDSG).

Special protection is also required for automated retrieval procedures. In these online procedures, the receiving agency is responsible for the eligibility of the retrieval (  10 (4) sentence 1 BDSG). In some state data protection laws, the establishment of automated retrieval procedures is subject to special legal requirements.

Rights of the persons concerned

The persons concerned have in particular the following rights according to the BDSG and the country-specific data protection laws:

* Right to information about the data stored about you, including those relating to the source of such data, the recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data are transmitted and the purpose of the storage.
* Right to correction if incorrect data is stored.
* Right to blocking, as far as the correctness of the data is disputed by the person concerned and neither the correctness nor the incorrectness can be determined.
* Right to erasure if the storage of the data is inadmissible or the data is no longer needed. In place of a deletion is a blockage, as far as retention periods preclude, there is reason to believe that the deletion would adversely affect the interests of the data subject or the erasure because of the special nature of the storage or is possible only with unreasonably high effort.
* Right to object to the data processing because of the special personal situation of the data subject, unless the data processing is required by a legal provision.
* Right to compensation for inadmissible or incorrect collection, processing or use of personal data.


These rights can not be excluded or limited by contracts or other legal transactions.

In addition, the data subject can also contact the company or data protection officer (bDSB) or the relevant supervisory authority on matters relating to data protection. No one may be discriminated against or reprimanded for having contacted the Supervisor or Supervisor. Formal and mandatory requirements do not exist.

Contacts and controls

Compliance with the data protection regulations is checked by data protection supervisory authorities:

The operational or official data protection officers are responsible for the internal data protection control. They are to be directly subordinated to the company / authority management and are free to practice their data protection expertise. Data Protection Officers work to ensure compliance with data protection regulations. An overview of the automated procedures in the company / in the authorities is to be made available to you by the responsible office. Most of this information has to be made available by the company data protection officer in an appropriate manner. The operational data protection officer may, in case of doubt, contact the responsible data protection supervisory authority.

The Federal Commissioner for Data Protection is responsible for public authorities in the federal sector. These include the authorities of the Federal Administration and the other public agencies of the Confederation, including the federal bodies. Its main task is to advise and control these public bodies.

The country data protection officers are responsible for advising and supervising the authorities of the state administration and the other public bodies of the country, which also includes the municipalities.

The data protection supervisory authorities for the non-public bodies take over the consultation and supervision in the field of economy. In some of the federal states, this task is performed by the state data protection officers. In the other federal states, the task is assigned to the responsible ministry, mostly the ministry of the interior.

The addresses of the data protection officers of the federal and state governments and of the data protection supervisory authorities for the non-public bodies can be found at www.datenschutz.de.

Data protection in the IT-Grundschutz catalogs

The measures contained in the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs in the other modules serve the purpose of information security and thus the protection of personal data. The following representations of danger are limited to additional dangers from the point of view of data protection. Corresponding measures will be recommended afterwards.

Due to the often difficult legal situation regarding data protection issues in general or special legal regulations, expert advice should be used to assess the legal requirements and the resulting measures for the information security and data protection concept.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

As part of data protection management, the legal framework must be observed and appropriate technical and organizational measures taken to ensure data protection. This includes measures in the planning and design phase, in the course of implementation, as well as in the operation of IT systems and procedures.

The following is an introduction to the supplementary data protection package that applies to all IT systems and IT procedures used to process personal data:



