#B 1.12 Archiving
## Description 
The mapping of business processes and documents into electronic documents requires a suitable storage of the resulting data for later use, retrieval and processing. This concerns data sets as well as electronic represen- tations of paper business documents and supporting documents. The permanent and unalterable storage of electronic documents and other data is called archiving.

Archiving can be seen as part of a process. In addition to the creation, processing and management of electronic documents, permanent storage (archiving) plays a special role, since it is usually expected that the documents will be available until the expiration of a given retention period and, on the other hand, their confidentiality and integrity is maintained. Under certain circumstances, electronic documents should be available indefinitely.

The range of implementation possibilities of an archive system includes:

* small archive systems, eg. B. consisting of an archive server with attached mass storage (such as hard disk or jukebox), up to
* complex archive systems, possibly distributed worldwide, for archiving relevant business data throughout the organization, consisting of: central archive server components with RAID systems, jukeboxes or the connection to storage area networks (SAN) for the central storage of files, WORM media for revision-proof, unalterable storage of data, components for indexing files, search and conversion of storage formats (rendition), decentralized cache servers for quick access to frequently used data, client Software that allows direct access to archive data (eg also from office applications).


It is useful to distinguish electronic archiving from data backup. During a backup, copies of the system and user data are created. The saved data is physically separated from the IT system and stored protected against danger. A characteristic feature of electronic archiving is that documents and data are permanently stored digitally over a long period of time, depending on the specifications. In addition, the context must be preserved so that the respective stored process can be reconstructed.

In this module, a systematic way to show how a concept for electronic archiving is created and how the structure of an archive system and its embedding within a company or a public authority can be ensured. The effort to create and implement such a concept is not small. This component should always be used if the data to be archived is relevant for the authorities or the company in the long term.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

In addition, the procedure described below for the introduction and operation of electronic archive systems is recommended. It should be taken into consideration already during planning that the archive systems and media used will become technologically and physically obsolete over the course of time. Therefore, a planning and implementation phase is followed by a migration phase in which the existing archive system or parts thereof are replaced by new technologies and components. The migration phase also includes the transfer of the archived data and documents to data formats used in the future.



The individual phases and the measures to be implemented therein are briefly explained below.



###1st planning phase
In the planning phase, the objective, which is connected with the use of the archive system, must be formulated (see M 2.242 Objective of electronic archiving). In this case, the relevant organizational, legal and technical requirements must be determined, whereby it must also be estimated how the requirements will develop during the expected runtime of the archive system to be introduced (see M 2.244 Determination of technical influencing factors f Dier the electronic archiving, M 2.245 determination of the legal influencing factors for the electronic archiving and M 2.246 determination of the organizational influencing factors for the electronic archiving). The results must be laid down in an archiving concept (see M 2.243 Development of the archiving concept).



###2. Introduction and operation
When introducing an archive system, a system must first be selected that meets the requirements identified. In addition, the place of installation of the system and the storage location of the archive media must be specified (see M 4.168 Selection of a suitable archive system, M 4.169 Use of suitable archive media, M 4.170 Selection of suitable data formats for archiving documents, M 1.59 Suitable Installation of storage and archive systems, M 1.60 Suitable storage of archive media).

In addition to the archive system as such, a suitable higher-level document management system must be introduced for managing the contents of the archive (see M 2.258 Consistent indexing of documents during archiving, M .2.259 Introduction of higher-level document management).

The regulations for the use of the archive system and the use of digital signatures must be defined and the administrators and users trained (see M 2.262 Regulation of the use of archive systems, M .2.265 Suitable use of digital signatures during archiving, M  3.34 instruction in the administration of the archive system, M .3.35 instruction of the user in the operation of the archive system).

In order to be able to ensure the correctness in the long term, the archiving process must be continuously monitored and checked for correctness. In addition, it must be ensured that sufficient media is available for archiving at all times (see M 2.257 Monitoring of storage resources of archive media, M 2.260 Periodic revision of the archiving processM 2.263 Periodic reprocessing of archived data records, M 4.171 Protection of the integrity of the index database of archive systems, M 4.172 Logging of archive access, M 4.173 Regular function and recovery tests during archiving, M 6.84 Regular Data backup of system and archive data).

Depending on the archiving software actually used, the measures described in block "B 5.7 Databases" must also be implemented.



###3rd migration phase
The migration phase is often triggered by events such as the following:

* There has been a technology change for system components or data formats, so developments in this area should be monitored (see M 2.261 Regular Market Observation of Archive Systems).
* System components, in particular data carriers, have been superseded and must be replaced by new ones (see M 2.266 Regular renewal of technical archive system components).
* The usage criteria for the archive system have changed.
* Cryptographic processes, products or keys must be replaced by new ones (see M 2.264 Regular processing of encrypted data during archiving).


In the following, the set of measures for the use of electronic archive systems is presented:



