#B 1.11 Outsourcing
## Description 
In outsourcing, the work or business processes of an institution are outsourced in whole or in part to external service providers. Outsourcing can affect the use and operation of hardware and software as well as services. It is irrelevant whether the services are provided in the premises of the client or in an external operating center of the outsourcing service provider. Typical examples are the operation of a data center, an application, a website or the security service. Outsourcing is a generic term that is often supplemented by additional terms: Offshoring refers to the outsourcing of business and production processes in locations in another country. Tasksourcing refers to the outsourcing of individual tasks. When outsourcing services related to information security, we talk about security outsourcing or managed security services. Examples are the outsourcing of the firewall operation, the monitoring of the network, virus protection or the operation of a virtual private network (VPN). An application service provider (ASP) is a service provider who operates individual applications or software for his customers on his own systems (e-mail, SAP applications, archiving, web shops, procurement). Clients and service providers are connected to each other via the Internet or a VPN. In application hosting, the operation of applications is outsourced to a service provider, but in contrast to the ASP model, the applications still belong to the respective customer. As the boundaries between classic outsourcing and pure ASP are becoming increasingly blurred in practice, only the generic term outsourcing will be used in the following.

The outsourcing and restructuring of business and production processes is an established part of today's organizational strategies. The trend towards outsourcing also seems to be unbroken for the near future. However, there are now also published examples of failed outsourcing projects, where the client has terminated the outsourcing contract and is reorganizing the outsourced business processes (insourcing).

The reasons for outsourcing are manifold: the concentration of an institution on its core competencies, the possibility of cost savings (eg no acquisition or operating costs for IT systems), access to specialized knowledge and resources, the release of internal resources for other tasks, the streamlining of internal administration, the improved scalability of business and production processes, the increase in flexibility and the competitiveness of an institution are just a few examples.

When outsourcing IT-supported business processes, the IT systems and networks of the outsourcing institution and its outsourcing service provider are usually closely interconnected so that parts of internal business processes run under the direction and control of an external service provider. Likewise, intensive contact takes place on a personal level.

Due to the close connection to the service provider and the resulting dependence on the quality of the service, there are risks for the client which, in the worst case, can even endanger the business base of the company or the authorities can. (For example, sensitive internal information could be intentionally or unintentionally disclosed to the outside world.) Considering security aspects and designing contractual arrangements between the client and the outsourcing service provider thus plays a key role in an outsourcing project.

The focus of this module is therefore on measures that deal with aspects of information security in outsourcing. This also includes appropriate measures to control the contractually agreed objectives and benefits as well as the security measures.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

An outsourced business process or information network can consist of components that are exclusively within the sphere of influence of the outsourcing service provider, as well as components from the client. As a rule, there are interfaces for connecting the systems in this case. For each subsystem and for the interface functions IT-Grundschutz must be guaranteed.

An outsourcing project consists of several phases, which are briefly outlined below.



###Phase 1: Strategic planning of the outsourcing project
Even in the context of the strategic decision as to whether and in what form an outsourcing project will be implemented, the safety-relevant aspects must be worked out. In measure M 2.250 definition of an outsourcing strategy, the essential points are presented, which have to be considered.



###Phase 2: Definition of essential safety requirements
Once the outsourcing decision has been made, the essential overarching security requirements for the outsourcing project must be determined. These security requirements form the basis for the tender procedure (see M .2.251 Definition of security requirements for outsourcing projects).



###Phase 3: Selection of the outsourcing service provider
The choice of the outsourcing service provider is of particular importance (see M 2.252 Choice of a suitable outsourcing service provider).



###Phase 4: Contracting
Based on the specifications, a contract must now be negotiated with the partner who stipulates the desired services, including quality standards and deadlines, in accordance with existing legislation. These contracts are often referred to as Service Level Agreements (SLA). This contract must also clarify the exact modalities of cooperation: contact persons, reaction times, IT connection, control of services, design of security measures, handling of confidential information, exploitation rights, disclosure of information to third parties, etc. ( see M 2.253 contract design with the outsourcing service provider).



###Phase 5: Creation of a security concept for the outsourced information network
In close cooperation, clients and outsourcing service providers must draw up a detailed security concept (M .2.254 Creation of a security concept for the outsourcing project), which includes an emergency preparedness concept (M 6.83 Outsourcing contingency planning).

As a rule, phase 5 will only be completed once the migration phase has been completed, because new insights will be required during the migration of IT systems and applications, which must be incorporated into the security concept.



###Phase 6: Migration phase
Particularly critical for security is the migration or transition phase, which therefore requires careful planning (see M 2.255 Secure migration for outsourcing projects).



###Phase 7: Planning and ensuring ongoing operations
If the outsourcing service provider has taken over the systems or business processes, various measures, such as regular checks and the implementation of system maintenance, are necessary to maintain information security during operation (see M .2.256 Planning and Maintenance) Maintaining information security in ongoing outsourcing operations). These must be planned accordingly in advance. Emergency and escalation scenarios must be taken into account in planning.

The following section presents the tool for outsourcing.



