#B 1.18 Identity and Entitlement Management
## Description 
The goal of identity management is to unequivocally identify the subjects who access an institution's resources, especially IT resources. Accessing subjects can be persons or even IT components or, for short, users. Identity management refers to the management of the information required for identification but also for authentication.

Authorization management is then about whether and in which granularity information or services can be used by these subjects, ie granting or denying access, access or access based on the user profile. Authorization Management refers to the processes required to assign, revoke, and control rights.

The transitions between the two terms are fluent, therefore, the term identity and access management is used in the following. Identity and entitlement management ensures that users only have access to the IT resources and information they need and are authorized to do.

Identity and entitlement management must meet the following requirements:

* Set up and implement procedures to control and control access to information and access to IT resources, especially the handling and management of identities and permissions
* Registration of users, assignment and withdrawal of rights,
* Administration of user IDs and the associated authorizations,
* Control of user access.


Identity and entitlement management consists of both organizational and technical procedures. Often the identity and authorization management is done with on-board resources and manually. This approach leads to high administration costs as well as inconsistent and obsolete user data. The use of IT applications can assist in the implementation, but are only part of a solution. This module shows how safe solutions should look for structured handling of users and authorizations.

Authorizations may only be restricted and set up task-oriented according to the principle of least privileges. In the premises, and in particular the IT systems of an institution, a large proportion of the intellectual property of this institution is located. The IT systems also support many mission-critical business processes of a company or a public authority. Identity and authorization management ensures that only the necessary authorizations are assigned to users. A documented approach to assigning, changing and revoking privileges allows access, access and access to information to be controlled, and background systems allow it to store and evaluate the activities that have taken place to be able to. In case of damage or due to legal requirements, activities can be evaluated and assigned to users.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional components have to be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT basic protection.

In the context of identity and authorization management, a number of measures have to be implemented, regardless of the type of IT components used. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.

Identity management systems require various components, including systems for managing personal and organizational data (typically directory services, see building block B 5.15 General directory service) and services for user identification and authentication , eg Using directory services such as Novell Directory Services, Microsoft Active Directory, or RACF on IBM mainframes.



###Planning and conception
In each institution, there must be a suitable procedure for dealing with identities and authorizations (see M 2.585 Conception of identity and authorization management). First, the basic framework of the security concept should be defined within the institution with regard to identity and entitlement management. All specifications, eg. For example, naming conventions and internal procedures should be described in a guideline (see M 2.220 Guidelines for Access Control). This also includes the specifications for controlling the password usage (see M 2.11 Control of password usage).

If employees reapply, hand over or leave the institution, authorizations must be created, changed or deleted, and their user IDs must be deactivated (see M 2.586 Setting up, changing and revoking privileges Setup, change and revocation of permissions).

For further management requirements, M der2.587 Approach and conception of processes for identity and authorization management provides an example of the structure and organization of identity and authorization management.

procurement

When procuring identity and authorization management systems and authentication mechanisms, the protection requirements of the information to be processed should already be considered in the selection process. In M 4.499 Suitable selection of identity and authorization management systems is described in more detail.

implementation

Access to IT systems should be planned and implemented in a way that allows employees to access only the information they need for their day-to-day work. To ensure access, suitable authentication mechanisms should be used (see M 4.1 Password protection for IT systems). Default passwords should also be changed immediately (see M 4.7 Change of preset passwords).

All employees should be regularly trained in the handling and awareness of secure passwords (see M 3.63 Training Users in Authentication Using Directory Services).

business

In the context of identity and authorization management, access, access and access for all employees are regulated in the various areas of an institution and on all resources (see M 2.6 Assignment of access authorizations, M 2.7 assignment of access authorizations and M 2.8 Allocation of access rights).

All changes within the identity and authorization management must be documented in writing (see M 2.31 Authorized user and rights profile documentation).



###emergency preparedness
The failure of an identity and authorization management system can mean that users can no longer log in and user profiles can no longer be changed, created and deleted. It has to be examined to what extent a failure of the identity and entitlement management system has security-critical effects on the business processes (see M 6.166 Emergency Preparedness in the Identity and Authorization Management System).

The following is an introduction to the area of ??Identity and Entitlement Management:



