#B 1.10 Standard software
## Description 
Standard software is understood to mean software that is offered on the market and generally available through specialist retailers, eg. Can be purchased via catalogs. It is characterized by the fact that it is to be installed by the user himself and that only little effort is required for the user-specific adaptation.

This module describes a procedure for handling standard software with regard to safety. The entire lifecycle of standard software is considered: creation of a requirements catalog, pre-selection of a suitable product, test, release, installation, license management and uninstallation.

The quality management system of the developer of the standard software does not fall within the scope of this module. It is assumed that the development of the software took place in compliance with common quality standards.

The procedure described serves as orientation for establishing a security process with regard to standard software. If appropriate, the procedure shown here can also be used for comparison with an already introduced method.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For standard software, a number of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the planning of the assignment from procurement to its commissioning. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Before selecting a particular standard software, a catalog of requirements should be drawn up to select a product according to objective and comprehensible criteria so that one can have some confidence that a reasonably optimal product will be used. At this stage, for more complex products, those responsible for their procurement and use should also be determined.



###procurement
For procurement, it is possible to check, based on the concrete requirements of the catalog of requirements, which of the products available on the market has the most suitable functionality.



###implementation
By testing at reasonable depth, it must be ensured that the selected product actually has the functionality specified in the documentation. If the product is to be used on a broad basis, it must be integrated into the existing installation procedures and the installation itself must be documented. Use in the area may only take place after the product has been released after successful completion of the tests and after completion of the preparatory work.



###business
The control of the installed versions and the tracking of the available licenses and their comparison with the installed number of products is a permanent task during the use of the standard software.



###segregation
A clean deinstallation of standard software often requires extensive and complex work, in some cases up to the reinstallation of computers.

The package of measures for the standard software module is presented below. Depending on the type and scope of the respective standard software, consideration must be given to whether individual measures are implemented only to a reduced extent. Measures M 2.79 to M 2.89 provide a comprehensive description in the given order of how the life cycle of standard software can be designed. They are complemented by the other mentioned measures.



