#B 1.15 Deleting and destroying data
## Description 
To ensure that information does not fall into the wrong hands, a regulated procedure is required to completely and reliably delete or destroy data and data carriers. It must include information that needs protection on paper or other analogue media such as microfilm (video, cinematographic, photographs, records, documents, audio cassettes), as well as on digital media (electronic, electronic). magnetic, optical) such as DVD and CD are stored.

Failure to disclose, sell, or discard any undelivered data may result in significant damage to information inadvertently. Cryptographic keys, passwords, confidential information and other highly sensitive data in memory or in paging files pose a potential risk.

Therefore, every agency and every business must have a safe-handling policy. This module describes how an appropriate concept for the secure deletion and destruction of data can be created for an institution.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

A number of measures have to be implemented for the secure deletion and destruction of data. The steps to be followed and the measures to be followed in each step are listed below. The main focus of the activities is of course in the phase of life cycle disposal. However, many volumes are also propagated during the other phases, so that existing information that should not be forwarded must be safely deleted.



###Planning and conception
A regulated procedure for the deletion or destruction of data carriers prevents the misuse of the stored information (see M 2.431 Regulation of the procedure for the deletion or destruction of information). This procedure should be available to all employees in an understandable guideline (see M 2.432 Guideline for the Deletion and Destruction of Information).



###procurement
For the procurement of devices for deleting or destroying data, the requirements resulting from the concept must be formulated for the respective products and appropriate products or services selected on the basis thereof (see M 2.434 Procurement of suitable equipment) Zurte for deletion or destruction of data and M 2.436 destruction of data carriers by external service providers).



###implementation
All employees should be familiar with the procedures for deleting information or destroying data carriers (see M 3.67 Teaching all employees about methods of deleting or destroying data).



###business
All types of information should be managed according to clear structures. In addition, they should be categorized according to protection needs. This makes it easier to identify all information to be deleted or destroyed and to find the areas where it has been processed and stored (see M 2.217 Careful classification and handling of information, applications and systems).



###segregation
When decommissioning data carriers and IT systems, various measures must be taken so that important data are not lost or sensitive data is left behind. Appropriate safety recommendations can be found in M 4.234 Regulated commissioning of IT systems and data carriers. For the various IT systems there are recommendations in the respective modules of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs, such as in M 2.320 Controlled Commissioning of a Server and M 2.323 Controlled Commissioning of a Client.

In the following, the measure of deletion and destruction of data is presented.



