#B 2.2 Electrotechnical cabling
## Description 
The electrotechnical cabling of IT systems and other equipment includes all cables and distributions in the building from the point of entry of the distribution system operator to the electrical connections of the consumers.

Proper and standard compliant electrical wiring is the basis for safe IT operation. The IT cabling for communication between the IT systems is handled in a separate block (see block B 2.12 IT cabling). Since common routes and routes are used for both types of cabling, the measures mentioned in both modules must be implemented together.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

A number of measures have to be implemented for the electrotechnical cabling, starting with the planning over the implementation to the operation. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below. As with the building, it should also be noted here that the possibilities of influencing the move into an already existing building, even when securing the wiring, are considerably lower than when constructing a new building.



###Planning and conception
In the planning phase, the foundations are laid for powerful, well-secured cabling.

The mechanical and electrical properties of the cabling are determined by the choice of cable types to be used, cable routing and routes, and environmental conditions. By selecting suitable cable types and type-specific installation, the electrical installation must be made resistant to environmental hazards. When planning, care should also be taken to ensure that the lines and main and subdivisions of the building are adequately physically protected against misuse.



###implementation
An essential element of fire protection is the correct installation of cable ducts, which can cause considerable risks due to the lack of fire barriers. When installing the cabling, it is also important to pay attention to detailed and correct documentation, since afterwards it is usually very difficult or even impossible to determine where cables are going and what they are connecting.



###business
As a basis for safe and trouble-free operation, the systems and their use must be checked regularly (see M 2.394 Testing electrical systems). When working on routes, it must be ensured that the fire protection officer is involved in planning and execution in good time (see M 2.391 Early warning of the fire protection officer).



###segregation
Even electrical cables that are no longer required must be removed or put out of service properly (see M 5.1 Removing or Disabling Unnecessary Cables).



###emergency preparedness
If increased demands are made on availability, the wiring should be redundant, including, if applicable, the external connections.

The following is a description of the range of measures for electrical wiring:



