#B 2.12 IT cabling
## Description 
The IT cabling covers all communication cables and passive components (shunting or splice distributors, patch panels), which are operated on their own authority. It is therefore the physical basis of the internal communication networks of an institution. The IT cabling ranges from transfer points from a foreign network (eg ISDN connection of a telecommunications provider, DSL connection of an Internet provider) to the connection points of the network subscribers.

Active network components (routers, switches, etc.) are not part of this chapter. Similarly, the topic WLAN is excluded. Both topics are dealt with in their own modules of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs. In this module, IT cabling is the physical basis of a manufacturer-neutral and application-neutral communication network, ie a Local Area Network (LAN). There is no distinction between IT cabling for data transport and TK cabling for telecommunications services.

The IT cabling as part of the technical infrastructure of buildings and real estate is divided according to the established view and procedure of structured cabling in the primary, secondary and tertiary sector.

The primary area is the area of ??the cable duct that connects buildings. The primary range bridges large distances with high transmission rates between a few connection points. A prime cabling in their own sovereignty thus have only instances that operate larger properties with multiple buildings. If only one building is to be considered, the main distributor in the building logically represents the primary area.

Secondary refers to the wiring between the building distributor and distributors of the floors or building areas. This wiring is found in many larger buildings.

The tertiary wiring is the connection of the terminals to a central distribution point (eg in the floor). It is always present.

An often used mixed form of structured cabling exists when the connection of the terminals is carried out directly from a central point in the server room or a room for technical infrastructure (frequently referred to as network room or TK room). In this case, the secondary cabling may consist only of the connection cables between the switches. The tertiary wiring extends from the central distribution point in the building to the junction boxes in the rooms.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

The B 3.302 router and switches in particular are closely related to IT cabling and must be used in accordance with this module. If a radio network is used in the considered information network, the module B 4.6 WLAN is additionally to be used.

For a secure IT cabling a number of measures have to be implemented, starting with the planning over the implementation to operation and emergency preparedness. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below. It should be taken into account that the possibilities of influencing the security of the IT cabling when moving into an existing building are considerably lower than when constructing a new building.



###Planning and conception
In the planning phase, the foundations are laid for efficient, well-secured IT cabling. The starting point is a requirement analysis (see M 2.395 IT Cabling Requirements Analysis), which assesses the current need and outlines future developments and impact assessment for the IT cabling in the institution ,

Based on this requirement planning, the network structure is defined (see M 5.2 Selection of a suitable network topology) and fitted into the building (see M 1.21 Sufficient route dimensioning). The mechanical and electrical properties of the wiring are largely determined by the choice of cable types to be used. When planning, care should also be taken to ensure that cables and cabinets distributed over the building are adequately physically secured against misuse.



###implementation
An essential element of fire protection is the correct installation of cable ducts, which can cause considerable risks due to the lack of fire barriers. When installing the cabling, it is also important to pay attention to a detailed and correct documentation (see M 5.4 Documentation and labeling of the cabling), because afterwards it is usually very difficult or even impossible to determine where cables are running without them and what they connect. For fault-free operation, the IT cabling must be properly installed (see M 1.68 Professional installation).

Before commissioning, the installation of the IT cabling must be removed (see M 5.142 Acceptance of the IT cabling) and the quality of the associated documentation (see M 5.4 Documentation and labeling of the cabling) to be checked.



###business
To prevent unauthorized access to IT equipment, only the connections and outlets that are actually needed should be activated. In addition, regular checks should ensure that this activation also meets the actual requirements (see M 2.20 Checking existing compounds). In addition, it must be ensured that the documentation is kept up to date (see M 5.143 Ongoing updating and revision of the network documentation).



###segregation
If components of the IT cabling are no longer required, they must be removed (see M 5.144 Reverse engineering of the IT cabling).



###emergency preparedness
If increased availability requirements are met, the wiring, including, if appropriate, the external connections, should be designed so redundantly that damage to a single point does not lead to total failure of all subscriber lines can. For this purpose, redundancies of the connection between buildings (see M 6.103 Redundancies for the primary cabling) and within a building (see M 6.104 Redundancies for the building cabling) should be provided if necessary.

The following is a description of the range of measures for IT cabling:



