#B 2.8 Domestic workstation
## Description 
Teleworkers, freelancers or self-employed people typically work from home-based workplaces. In contrast to the workplace in a office environment, an employee uses a workplace in their own living environment in a home-based workplace. A sufficient separation of professional and private spheres must be made possible. Workplaces in employees' homes that are used on a permanent basis must also meet various legal requirements, for example they must comply with occupational health and ergonomic regulations.

Since a home-based workplace does not require the infrastructural security found in an office environment within an institution's premises, and visitors or family members also have access to that workplace, security measures must be taken be taken to achieve a security situation comparable to a This module describes the typical dangers and measures for a home-based workplace.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

A number of measures are to be implemented for the home office, beginning with the planning of the use to the disposal of sensitive data carriers and printouts. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
The measure M 1.44 Appropriate home office designation sets out the basic design options that should be taken into account when setting up a workstation in a home environment.



###implementation
For the controlled use of a home-based workplace, it is necessary to regulate which information can be processed in the home office, transported back and forth between the company or the authority and the home office, and which protective measures are to be taken.



###business
Even when using a home office, the usual work discipline must be maintained. This includes order at the workplace, compliance with the employer-provided regulations on the working environment and safe storage of work materials. The home office should also be locked in such a way that it is not exposed to an unreasonable burglary risk.



###segregation
Especially at the home office, it is important to dispose of data carriers and printouts carefully and not just throw them in the house.

The following is a description of the measures for the home workplace area.



