#B 2.10 Mobile workstation
## Description 
IT users are becoming increasingly mobile and can work almost anywhere thanks to ever-smaller and more powerful devices. As a result, official tasks are often no longer performed only in premises of the company or the authorities, but at changing workplaces in different environments, for example in the hotel room, in the railway or at the customer's.

In such environments, however, the infrastructural security found in a commercial or residential environment can not be assumed. For this reason, safety measures must be taken which allow a security situation comparable to a door room.

This module describes the typical dangers and measures for a mobile workstation.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

There are also a number of measures to be implemented for mobile workplaces. These should also be run on the lifecycle model.



###Planning and conception
The M 1.61 Appropriate selection and use of a mobile workstation describes the basic design options that should be taken into account when setting up a workstation in a foreign environment.



###implementation
For all work on the move, it is necessary to regulate which information can be transported and processed outside the company or the authorities and which protective measures must be taken. It should also be clarified under what conditions employees with mobile IT systems can access internal data of their institution.



###business
When working on the move, not only the entrained IT systems (eg laptop, PDA, mobile phone), but also information processed on the move must be treated with care. This includes compliance with the employer's stipulations regarding the working environment and safe storage of work materials.



###segregation
Especially in foreign environments, it is important to dispose of data carriers and printouts carefully and not just to throw in the house garbage.

The following section presents the measure of action for the Mobile Workplace area.



