#B 2.4 Server room
## Description 
The server room is primarily used to accommodate servers, eg. a LAN server, a Unix central computer, or a server for a PBX. In addition, server-specific documents, small volumes of data carriers or other hardware (star couplers, log printer, air conditioning technology) can be present there.

In a server room there is no permanently occupied workstation, it is only entered sporadically and for short term work. It should be noted, however, that in the server room, due to the concentration of IT equipment and data, a significantly higher level of damage may occur than, for example, in a room.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

When selecting and designing a server room, a number of infrastructural and organizational measures have to be implemented, which are described in M 1.58 Technical and organizational specifications for server rooms. Different approaches have to be followed for certain measures, depending on whether a server room is to be set up in a new building or whether it is a rental or the use of an existing building

is. In this second case, the possibilities for realizing adequate information security are often much more limited. The steps that should be taken in designing a server room and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
When planning server rooms, a series of measures to install the power supply, any necessary air conditioning, and fire protection must ensure that adequate physical security is provided. This also means that, as far as possible, there should be no water-bearing lines in a server room, since leaks can cause major damage or even failure of the entire information network. In the event of increased availability requirements, sufficient redundancies in the technical infrastructure should be planned for server rooms in order to enable the bridging of individual failures.



###implementation
Only those persons who need direct access to servers and other devices installed in the server room, such as communication distributors, firewalls, etc., should gain access to a server room and a ban on smoking should be a matter of course.



###business
Server rooms should always be locked when they are not occupied.

The following is a description of the set of measures for the server room area:



