#B 2.1 General building
## Description 
Buildings form the external framework for carrying out business processes. A building surrounds the stationary workstations, the processed information as well as the established information technology and thus ensures an external protection for them. Furthermore, the infrastructure facilities of a building often allow the execution of business processes and the IT operation. Therefore, on the one hand, the building, so walls, ceilings, floors, roof, windows and doors to consider on the other hand, all building-wide utilities such as electricity, water, gas, heating, Rohrpostetc.

Considered is a building that is used by one or more organizational units of an institution. These may well have different security requirements. In addition, it must be taken into account in all considerations that a building can and should almost always be entered by non-institutional customers (citizens, customers, suppliers).

If a building is used by different parties in different ways, the design and equipment of the building and the concept of use for the building must fit together. It is intended to ensure an optimal environment for the people working in the building. Unauthorized persons should not be allowed in there, where they could impair safety, and the technology stationed in the building should be operated safely and efficiently.

This module describes what measures an institution should take to make the most of a building from the point of view of information security. Even if the requirements for the implementation of the measures are influenced by the type and size of the institution, the recommendations in this module can also be applied to the consideration of large properties with several buildings or to their use individual building parts in multi-party buildings.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

This module considers technical and non-technical safety aspects in the planning and use of typical buildings for companies and authorities. The entire lifecycle of buildings is considered, starting with the creation of a catalog of requirements, from conception, set-up, use to conversions or excerpt.

The cabling in a building is considered separately in the blocks B 2.2 Electrical cabling and B 2.12 IT cabling, special premises such as server rooms or archive rooms in the respective building blocks of layer 2.

In the use of buildings for the business operations of public authorities or companies, different approaches have to be followed with regard to information security for certain measures. In a new construction, a large part of the necessary measures can already be carried out in the planning phase.

On the other hand, if it is a rental or use of an existing building, which may be associated with expansion or upbuilding measures, the possibilities for realizing adequate information security are often much more limited nt.



###Planning and conception
The planned use of a building and the protection requirements of the business processes operated there determine how the building should be designed and equipped with safety aspects. Starting with an assessment of the location and type of land, it is necessary to check whether the building is fit for purpose or appropriate.

It is advisable to plan a zone model (see M 1.79 Formation of Safety Zones) during the further planning or examination of an existing building, by means of which a planning of the use of the building based on protection requirements can be carried out (see M 1.78 Security concept for the use of the building). From this, the organization of access authorizations described in the measure M 1.80 access control system and authorization management, the execution of doors and windows and the further measures for securing and monitoring are derived.

In room occupancy planning, M 1.8 room occupancy shall be applied, taking into account fire conditions, and in the case of use of an existing building, M 1.13 arrangement of desirable building units. It is also always necessary, according to the intended use of the room, to determine the expected electrical connection values ??(see M 1.3 Adjusting the Circuits).



###procurement
Both in the selection of a site for a new building and in the valuation of an existing property, the measures M 1.16 Suitable site selection and M 2.334 Selection of a suitable building should be considered.



###Construction phase and preparation for use
During the construction phase, all protective measures assessed as necessary in the planning phase must be implemented. In any case, the measures M 1.1 Compliance with relevant standards and regulations and M 1.6 compliance with fire safety regulations must be applied during the construction phase. M 1.2 Arrangements for access to distribution and M 2.14 key management are to be defined at the time of moving into a building. Likewise, an access control and an access control concept according to M .2.17 access control and control is required.



###Gebudenutzung
During the building use phase, in particular the regular use of M 2.15 fire prevention inspections shall be provided, thus monitoring compliance with the prescribed fire protection regulations. Through the use and regular monitoring of the measure M .1.15 Closed windows and doors, ensure that only authorized persons are present in the building and that at least an elementary precaution against burglary is taken.



###emergency preparedness
In order to be prepared for emergencies, an alerting plan must be drawn up and emergency exercises should be carried out at regular intervals, as otherwise it may be expected that incorrect decisions will be made in the event of an emergency .Unklarheit dieber the necessary operations prevails (see M 6.17 Alert plan and fire protection exercises).

The following is a description of the action box for the module General Building:



