#B 3.204 Client under Unix
## Description 
Considered is a Unix system that is used either in stand-alone mode or as a client in a network. It can be connected to terminals, drives, printers and other devices. Furthermore, a graphical user interface such as X-Window can be used. Correspondingly, X terminals and graphical input devices can then also be connected. Further considerations assume that a Unix system is typically used by multiple people.

Examples of classic Unix systems are the BSD series (FreeBSD, OpenBSD and NetBSD), Solaris and AIX. Although Linux is not a classical, but a functional Unix (the kernel is not based on the original source code, from which the various Unix derivatives have developed), Linux is also considered in this module.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For clients under Unix, a number of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the planning of the operation from operation to emergency preparedness. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Whether you are using it as a client, as a terminal or application server, or as a standalone system, you need to make a series of determinations that form the basis of an orderly, secure operation. If mistakes are made here, they can often only be corrected afterwards with great effort.

It is necessary to establish a procedure for the allocation of user IDs, which ensures that privileged and unprivileged user IDs are clearly separated. Furthermore, it must be ensured that uncontrolled access to the single-user mode is not possible, since otherwise all safety measures defined for the duration of the system can be undermined.



###implementation
When setting up a Unix system, there are a number of measures (especially M 4.105 First steps after a Unix standard installation) that have been heard to ensure the security of this system, ie to close gaps which are usually present after a standard installation. This also means that only the really necessary network services are activated (see M 5.72 Deactivating unnecessary network services) and that system logging is activated.

Furthermore, the access rights to user and system files and directories are to be assigned according to an overlapping scheme so that only those users and processes who really need them have access, paying particular attention to the rights defined by setuid and setgid (see also M 4.19 Restrictive attribute assignment for Unix system files and directories).



###business
In order to keep track of the security of a Unix system, it is essential to document existing user profiles and their rights in a timely manner, to keep this documentation up to date and to carry out regular checks with the Reality to match. The safety of the system should be checked regularly, and the logs generated by the system should also be checked for any irregularities.



###emergency preparedness
Since Unix systems are often compromised due to their complexity after a successful attack, it is important to define in advance rules to be followed in the event of a real or suspected loss of system integrity.

The following is a description of the measures for the client area under Unix.

For possibly connected computers (eg clients under Windows), the measures described in the corresponding blocks must be implemented.

In addition, the following additional measures must be implemented:



