#B 3.101 General Server
## Description 
Servers are IT systems that provide services for other IT systems (clients) in the network. They typically operate in central, secure premises, such as a server room or data center, and are not used as workstations. For servers different operating systems are available, among others Unix or Linux, Microsoft Windows and Novell Netware. This module considers security aspects that are relevant for servers regardless of the operating system used. For operating system-specific security aspects, there are separate blocks in the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs, which are also to be applied to the affected server. The network-specific aspects of the server deployment are discussed in block B 4.1 Local Networks.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For the successful construction of a server, a number of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the conception, through the installation to the operation. Special emphasis should be placed on the conceptual planning measures when the server is installed as part of the construction of a new server-based network. However, if the installation takes place as an expansion of an already existing network, the planning measures can often be limited to ensuring that the new server complies with the existing structures. On the other hand, the measures for the procurement and operation of the server must be implemented in every case. The steps to be taken to protect a server and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
In the run-up to the actual planning, the general architecture of the network has to be defined or analyzed, from which generally also specifications for the operating systems to be used (server and client) result. In particular, it must be determined which goals are to be pursued with the server to be set up. For this purpose, the expected application scenarios are to be described and the intended use defined.

If a new network is set up, the structure of the network as a whole must first be planned, with questions such as the definition of a network topography and the decision on the degree of server centering (terminal server, classic client-server architecture or use of peer-to-peer networks) -Per-Functionality). Here are the measures of the module B 1.9 Hardware and Software Management.

In a further step, the definition of the operating systems used at the level of the server and the clients and, if necessary, the selection of specific variants (eg WindowsXX against Windows 2007 or Linux against a manufacturer-specific variant of Unix) follows. ,

If a new network is set up, the detailed structure of the network must be planned as the exact technical basis for further work. The number and interaction of the intended servers must be specified. The tasks of the servers and the way of their use by the clients are to be determined. On the basis of the availability requirements, it must be determined to what extent redundant structures are to be provided in the network. Here are also the necessary requirements for the infrastructure (especially air conditioning and power supply, see M 1.28 local uninterruptible power supply) set. In parallel, a general security policy must be developed (see M 2.316 Defining a security policy for a general server), which is then to be supplemented by system-specific security guidelines and detailed guidelines for the use of hardware and software in the network (see the modules for the individual server operating systems).



###procurement
The next step is to procure the software and any additional hardware that may be needed. Based on application scenarios, the requirements for products to be procured must be formulated and, based on this, the selection of suitable products must be made. The procurement of these products then provides the basis for the work of the next step.



###implementation
Users or administrators have a significant impact on the security of a server. Before the actual commissioning, the users and administrators must therefore be trained in the handling and use of the server to be set up. In particular, for administrators, intensive training is recommended due to the complexity of planning and administration. The administrators should acquire detailed knowledge of the system so that a consistent and correct system administration is guaranteed. Users should in particular be provided with the use of the available security mechanisms. Here are the measures of module B 1.13 Sensitization and training on information security.

After the organizational and planning preparatory work has been carried out, the server can be installed and commissioned. The following measures should be observed:

* Even the installation and basic configuration of a server must be carried out with special care in order to avoid hard-to-repair errors right from the start. General information on this can be found in M 2.318 Secure installation of an IT system and M 4.237 Secure basic configuration of an IT system. In addition to the general measures described in this module, the further-reaching measures included in the respective blocks are recommended for the respective operating system.
* After the installation and basic configuration of the servers, higher-level administrative structures may need to be configured. Among other things, it also comes into play for which purpose the individual servers are planned, for example as a file server, print server or, in the case of thin clients, as a terminal server. Here in particular the measure M 2.138 Structured Data Management is important in order to ensure a controllable operation of the server.
* After the installation and basic configuration of the server is completed, the actual server software can be installed and configured. The necessary steps differ considerably, depending on the type and intended use of the software, and are sometimes treated in their own modules. In principle, it is recommended to proceed with the installation and configuration of the server software in the same way as for the configuration of the operating system itself: Creation of an installation concept If several servers with similar applications and configuration are to be installed: Creating a reference installation Installation, basic configuration and updating TestDetailed Hints for the security of various server applications can be found in the components of layer 5.




###business
After the initial installation and a test operation phase, normal operation is started. From a security point of view, the following aspects should be considered:

* Client-server networks change very often. It must be ensured with every change that the safety is not impaired even after the change. The aspects to be considered in detail are contained in the modules for the respective server operating systems. It should be taken into consideration that the withdrawal of authorizations and the deletion of data records which are no longer required are regulated in such a way that obsolete structures do not create security gaps. An essential help is an efficient, comprehensive system administration, which can support up-to-date information about the state of the system and its rights structures at any time (see also M 4.24 Ensuring Consistent System Administration and M 2.31 Authorized User and Rights Profile Documentation). ,
* One means of maintaining the security of a server is to monitor the system or its individual components. The relevant measures can be found in M 4.93 Regular integrity check, M 5.8 Regular safety check of the network. In particular, privacy aspects also play a role. The frequent security holes of most client-server systems and the multitude of attacks against these weaknesses require administrators to keep track of the security status of the systems and new threats (see M 2.35 Obtaining information about security gaps in the system) and initiate countermeasures in good time (see also M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates).




###segregation
A server must not be shut down without notice. When a server is to be decommissioned, users must be informed in good time and a number of issues must be addressed to prevent downtime and data loss. These points are described in M 2.320 Controlled Termination of a Server. If the services of the server are to be migrated to another computer, M 2.319 migration of a server must be taken into account.

When segregating a server, it is also important to ensure that there is no longer any valuable information on the hard disks. It is not enough just to reformat the disks, but they have to be completely overwritten at least once. It should be noted that a mere logical deletion and not reformatting of the disks by the means of the installed operating system does not remove the data from the hard disks, so that they reconstructed with suitable software, often without much effort can be. Relevant information can be found in M 2.13 Ordinary disposal of valuable equipment, which is dealt with in the higher-level block B 1.1 Organization, and in M 4.234 Controlled shutdown of IT systems and data carriers in   higher-level block B 1.9 Hardware and Software Management.

The segregation of the server must be documented. Inventories and networks must be updated, and if the rejection results in structural changes in the information network, the security concept should also be adapted accordingly.



###emergency preparedness
Only a regular and comprehensive data backup ensures reliably that all stored data can be made available even in case of malfunction, failure of the hardware or (deliberate or unintentional) deletion can. The necessary measures are described in block B 1.4 Data backup concept.

In addition to the protection during operation, however, the emergency preparedness also plays an important role, because only so the damage in an emergency can be reduced. Information on emergency preparedness can be found in module B 1.3 Emergency Management. This also includes planning the handling of security incidents, which should be based on the measures of module B 1.8 Handling of security incidents. Some notes on specific aspects that should be considered in emergency preparedness for a server are described in M 6.96 Emergency Preparedness for a Server.

It is assumed that the server is housed in a server room (see module B 2.4 server room), a server cabinet (see module B 2.7 Protective cabinet) or in a data center (see module B 2.9 Data center). The measures to be implemented for the server operating systems can be found in the respective operating system-specific blocks. This also applies analogously to the connected clients. The measures of block B 1.9 Hardware and Software Management always form the general framework for the operation of server-supported networks.

In addition, the following additional measures must be implemented:



