#B 3.401 PBX
## Description 
With a telecommunications system, short-term telecommunications system, the phones of an institution can be internally connected and connected externally to a Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN). In addition to voice telephony, other services can be used, depending on the connected terminals. It is thus possible to transfer data, texts, graphics and moving pictures via PBXs. The information can be transmitted analogue or digitally via wired or wireless transmission media. Depending on the connection and the data networks used, telecommunication systems can be used in different configurations in one institution:

* Classic PBXsClassical PBXs use a separate network as PBX infrastructure for connection setup and transmission, depending on existing technology. For example, telephones, fax machines, modems and answering machines can be connected to the system.
* VoIP system Voice over IP (VoIP) uses an IP data network instead of a separate TC infrastructure with its own cabling to connect the terminals to the PBX. The terminals communicate in VoIP with the PBX or other VoIP devices over IP-based signaling and media transport protocols. The transition to the public telephone network takes place via a gateway within the institution.
* Hybrid System / Hybrid SystemBecause of the increasing importance of VoIP PBXs are offered that combine the classic telephony with VoIP telephony. In addition to the components of a classic PABX system, so-called hybrid systems also have a connection to the data network, via which IP telephones can communicate with the PABX system. With a hybrid system, the classic digital or analogue telephony and VoIP can be operated simultaneously. It is also possible to use a hybrid system to gradually migrate to a VoIP infrastructure.
* IP system connection When using VoIP, the PSTN connection can also be made by an external provider. The (internal) VoIP system also communicates externally with the external service provider primarily via the Internet (IP). This variant is called IP system connection.


In general, it can be said that the major telecommunications providers replace the conventional telephone network with uniform IP-based solutions (Next Generation Network), as it is no longer necessary to distinguish between data and voice transport. This will also affect the interface between an internal telephone system and the telecommunications service provider.

In this module, above all, the dangers and measures specific to the classical telecommunications systems are considered. The device should be used for any PBX, regardless of the technology used later. For all areas that go beyond the traditional telecommunications system, the corresponding components must also be implemented, for example, for VoIP (B 4.7 VoIP) or the mobile and wireless systems (eg B 3.404 mobile phone ).



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For example, the module B 4.5 LAN connection of an IT system via ISDN can be used, which can be used for all external connections that are implemented via ISDN. The modules B 3.404 mobile phone, B 4.6 WLANand B 4.7 VoIP are also to be observed where applicable. The central facilities of a telecommunications system should be installed in a room that meets the requirements for a server room (module B 2.4 server room) or a room for technical infrastructure (module B 2.6 room for technical infrastructure) , For the wiring of the PBX, refer to the B 2.2 Electrotechnical cabling module.

A number of measures have to be implemented for the PBX, starting with the planning from procurement and operation to emergency preparedness. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
For the planning of the TK-plant the measure M 2.471 planning of the use of TK-Anlagen should be considered. A guideline for the operation and the correct use of the PBX should be created (M 2.472 Creation of a security guideline for PBXs).



###procurement
The measure M 2.105 Procurement of PBXs specifies the essential criteria to be considered when selecting a PBX.



###implementation
During installation, it is essential to change the passwords preset by the manufacturer, otherwise the system can be manipulated by any attacker. Likewise, all interfaces must be secured. In the configuration, the basic rule is that all non-essential features must be shut down because they entail unnecessary risks (see M 5.14 Securing Internal Remote Accesses of PBXs and M 5.15 External Protection) Remote access to telecommunications systems).

Only those persons entrusted with the corresponding technical maintenance tasks should be given access to the technical room in which the PBX is installed.



###business
The administration work on the PBX should be logged as far as possible in order to be able to trace whether security-relevant settings have been changed, see M 4.5 Logging with PBXs. In case of high safety requirements for the operation of the PBX, a regular revision of the configuration settings is required (see M 4.6 Revision of the PBX configuration). Since safety is often undermined by inappropriate operation of the terminals by the users, the employees should be instructed in the correct use and sensitized to possible hazards on a regular basis (see M 3.82 Training on safety) safe use of telecommunications systems).



###emergency preparedness
Appropriate emergency preparedness measures must be taken for the PBX. In addition, their configuration data must be backed up regularly in order to be able to quickly restart the system after a possible failure and to correctly configure it (see M 6.145 Emergency Preparedness for PBXs).

The following is a description of the TK-Anlage range of measures:



