#B 3.406 Printers, Copiers, and Multifunction Devices
## Description 
The basic equipment in office environments typically includes copiers and printers at IT workplaces. Work results often have to be output, edited and archived on paper. Very often, however, it is not efficient to equip every single workstation with a printer. As a result, centralized network printers, copiers, or multifunction devices are often used to allow users to print or duplicate their documents.

The direct sending of the print jobs from the workstation PCs to the network printer is usually undesirable. A central server that accepts the orders and distributes them to the available printers often offers more advantages than disadvantages. As a result, a print server usually also belongs to the print infrastructure.

The integration of paper processing equipment into a network is in many cases not limited to printers. Web-enabled document scanners, for example, can be made available to a variety of users to digitize paper documents. For example, in conjunction with a printer, a scanner may be operated like a copier.

This module covers the security of networked printers, print servers, document scanners, copiers, and multifunction devices. Multifunction devices are devices that offer several different paper processing functions, such as printing, copying and scanning or even fax services. For readability, not all device types are named individually. Since, for example, for digital copiers, similar safety recommendations as for network printers must be observed, the measures for these devices apply analogously.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

Print servers are usually ordinary IT systems that operate as a corresponding server. In this case, the B 3.101 General Server block and the respective operating system-specific server block must also be taken into account. If Samba is to be used as a print server on Unix servers, or if Unix clients are to be able to access printer shares via Samba, block B 5.17 must be used for Samba.

For the use of printers, copiers and multifunction devices, in particular the subareas should be considered with regard to information security

* Information and communication encryption (protection of digital data),
* System protection (protection of the devices) and
* Document access (protection of printed documents)


to be viewed as.



###Planning and conception
The use of network printers, copiers and multifunction devices must be planned carefully (see M 2.397 Planning the Use of Printers, Copiers and Multifunction Devices). In the M 4.304 Management of Printers step, in-depth information on the components and design of typical printer landscapes can be found. The security requirements for network printers must be integrated into the overall security strategy of the institution.

Many of the problems associated with printers can not always be solved with technical measures. The users must be informed and obligated to a safety-conscious operation of the printer (see M 2.397 Planning the Use of Printers, Copiers and Multifunction Devices).

In addition to classic printers, similar devices should also be considered. These include, for example, multifunction devices (M 5.146 Network separation when using multifunction devices) and document scanners (M 4.303 Use of network-capable document scanners).



###procurement
Based on the application scenarios, the requirements for the products to be procured must be formulated and, based on this, the selection of suitable products must be made (see M 2.399 Criteria for Procurement and Appropriate Selection of Printers, Copiers and Multifunction Devices).



###implementation
Once all the planning steps have been completed and all components have been procured, it is about commissioning the devices. It also depends on where the devices are positioned (see M 1.32 Suitable installation of printers and copiers) and how access to the devices is restricted (M 4.301 Restricting access to printers , Copiers and multifunction devices).

Like any IT system, network-ready printers, copiers and scanners should be protected against unauthorized use (see M 4.299 Authentication for printers, copiers and multifunction devices). But also the media on which the (digital) information is transmitted and filed must be adequately protected. This is described in the M 4.300 Information Protection for Printers, Copiers, and Multifunction Devices.

In addition to print hardware, the software components, such as print servers or clients, are important for secure operation. Depending on the operating system and printing system used, appropriate measures and components, such as M 5.145 Secure Use of CUPS or B 5.17 Sambaum, should be used.



###business
In regular operation, in addition to the logging of important events (see M 4.302 Logging for printers, copiers and multifunction devices), it is also of great importance to supply the devices with consumables (see M 2.52 Supply and control of consumables) ,



###segregation
Very often, the memory of the printer, copier, scanner and multifunction devices stores sensitive information. When disposing of the devices, take the step M 2.400 Safe startup of printers, copiers and multifunction devices into account.



###emergency preparedness
Aspects of contingency planning for networked printers, copiers, document scanners, and multifunction devices are discussed in M 6.105 Emergency preparedness for printers, copiers, and MFPs.

The package of measures for the printer, copier and multifunction device module is presented below.



