#B 3.108 Windows Server 2003
## Description 
The software package Windows Server 2003 is the successor to the operating system Windows 2000 Server. Windows Server 2003 is available in Standard Edition, Enterprise Edition, Web Edition, and Datacenter Edition variants. Particularly widespread here is the standard edition. The Web Edition is a subset of the Standard Edition, the Enterprise Edition includes additional features that are only used in large environments or special requirements. These include failover clusters, complete terminal servers, network-based UDDI databases, unlimited VPN and RADIUS connections, new certificate services, and the Windows System Resource Manager (WSRM). Each of these editions is also available in a 64-bit version, which does not differ significantly in functionality from the 32-bit versions.

Demarcation of the module

The module Windows Server 2003 usually refers to the functions of the standard edition including service pack 1. However, it can also be easily applied to the variants Web Edition and Enterprise Edition. Other editions such as eg. Datacenter Edition and Windows Small Business Server 2003 include additional application-specific functionality that is not covered here.

The manifold application options require a differentiated view and thus a definition of the content of this module. On the one hand, Windows Server 2003 can serve as a pure platform for additionally available server applications and on the other hand, with the many applications included in Windows Server 2003, it can form a complete system for certain areas.

The activation of some functions is only necessary in certain application scenarios of a Windows Server 2003 system. For such application scenarios, general framework aspects are explained in this module. Affected are u. a. Network Load Balancing (NLB), High Availability Clusters, Application Server, Role Based Access Control (RBAC), Certificate Services (PKI), and Routing and Remote Access.

If Windows Server 2003 assumes the role of a domain controller in an Active Directory forest, the module B 5.16 Active Directory should be used in the modeling statement.

Do not look any further at Microsoft for additional packages that are not included in the standard delivery. These include, for example, Windows Sharepoint Services (WSS), the Windows Software Update Service (WSUS), the Rights Management Service (RMS), or the Microsoft Shared Computer Toolkit.

The following supplied components are also not considered because their use requires consideration of many non-standard aspects:

* Windows Media Services
* terminal server




## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

All considerations for a Windows Server 2003 should be based on the actions contained in the B 3.101 General Server block. The general measures described there are concretised and supplemented in the present module.

Servers and clients form a functional unit. Therefore, the B 3.201 General Client block and the OS-specific blocks based on it must also be taken into account in connection with this block.



###Planning and conception
Once the overall planning of the server deployment is complete and the choice of operating system is Windows Server 2003, server deployment sub-concepts must be created, taking into account all applicable higher-level policies and policies. The general planning procedure is explained in M 2.315 Server Use Planning.

For the subject areas mentioned therein, the specific recommendations from the measures M 4.276 Planning of the use of Windows Server 2003 and M 2.364 Planning of administration as of Windows 2003 can be found.

During planning important decisions about basic infrastructure services have to be made. Mandatory is M 5.152 exchange of information and resources via peer-to-peer services. In the decisions regarding the design of the infrastructure services flow the planned roles and the hints from the tools for the IT-Grundschutz (see DNS / WINS / DHCP as infrastructure services under Windows Server 2003 in aids to the Windows server 2003).

The communication protocols of the server (M 4.277 Securing of SMB, LDAP and RPC communication under Windows servers, M 5.131 Protection of IP protocols under Windows Server 2003) must also be planned.

Other cross-functional features may increase the security of the server, such as: WebDAV and Encrypting File System (EFS) (see M 5.132 Secure Use of WebDAV on Windows Server 2003, M 4.278 Secure Use of EFS on Windows Server 2003), Network Load Balancing (NLB), IPSec, Smart Card User Authentication and other. M 6.99 Regular backup of important system components for Windows servers, M 4.279 Extended security aspects for Windows Server 2003 should also be taken into account.

For all steps mentioned so far, the principles of M 5.10 Restrictive rights assignment and M 5.9 logging on the server must be taken into account. Specific support is provided by M 2.370 Administration of authorizations from Windows Server 2003 and M 2.365 Planning of system monitoring under Windows Server 2003. The recommendations given there for operating the server should also be taken into account when planning authorization concepts.

As part of server planning, a security policy should be established and / or existing policies should be added. For all steps mentioned above, depending on the purpose and user data, critical aspects as well as individual solutions and procedures arise. These are collected. Then, based on the individual situation and organizational structure of the company or the authority, it is considered which aspects should be added to the security guidelines. The measure M 2.316 Setting a security policy for a common server sign describes a suitable approach.



###procurement
After completion of the conceptual design work and the definition of the procurement criteria for a server (see M 2.317 Procurement criteria for a server), a suitable license model should be selected depending on the number of servers to be procured. The tools for IT-Grundschutz provide help in this regard (see Selection of suitable licensing methods for Windows XP / Server 2003 in Windows Server 2003 resources).



###implementation
After planning security-relevant measures for Windows Server 2003, these must be implemented as part of the implementation or installation and configuration of the Windows Server 2003 system.

To ensure an adequate level of security, the following precautions should be observed when implementing (and later operating) a Windows Server 2003 system:

* The functionality should be reduced to the planned and absolutely necessary (also with regard to clients accessing the server) in order to minimize the attack surface and reduce the number of (potential) vulnerabilities (M 4.285 Uninstalling unneeded client features of Windows Server 2003 and M 4.286 Using Software Restriction Policy on Windows Server 2003 and M 4.284 Handling Services on Windows Server 2003 or later).
* The configuration has to be optimized with regard to security and fulfillment of the task of the server (hearing of the server), so that only the actually necessary downwards compatibility and openness of the system are given (M 4.282 Secure configuration the IIS Basic Component on Windows Server 2003 and M 4.283 Secure Migration of Windows NT 4 Server and Windows 2000 Server to Windows Server 2003, and M 4.48 Password Protection on Windows Systems).
* An up-to-date and adequate documentation has to be created which best supports the security process.


The M 4.280 Secure Basic Configuration of Windows Server 2003 provides a number of minor features and basic implementation procedures to meet the above-mentioned prerequisites.

For installation and configuration, utilities, so-called assistants, should be preferred. Manual adjustments should only be made if absolutely necessary. On the one hand this prevents misconfigurations and on the other hand simplifies the documentation (eg: assistant with default settings and the following three different settings configured ...). Administrative tools such as templates and scripts (M 2.366 Use of security templates under Windows Server 2003 and M 2.367 Use of commands and scripts as of Windows Server 2003) support standardization and documentation.

If the server is being rebuilt, all of the steps mentioned above flow together when installing and deploying the server. In order to establish a secure and reliable process, M 4.281 Secure Installation and Deployment of Windows Server 2003 should be implemented.



###business
In regular operation, the handling of administrative templates and the administration of authorizations are important in addition to the guarantee of current documentation (M 2.368 Handling of administrative templates under Windows as of Server 2003 and M 2.370 administration of authorizations as of Windows Server 2003).

In addition to the measures mentioned in block B 3.101 General Server, M Die4.93 Regular Integrity Check and M 5.8 Regular Network Security Check for Windows Server 2003 by Ma Acceptance M 2.369 Regular safety-related maintenance measures of a Windows Server 2003 supported or specified.



###segregation
For the controlled rejection of a Windows Server 2003, the recommended measures described in module B 3.101 General Server should generally be taken into account. In addition, with regard to the deactivation or deletion of individual accounts, provision M 2.371 Regulated deactivation and deletion of unused accounts must be observed.



###emergency preparedness
Aspects of contingency planning for a Windows Server 2003 are discussed in M 6.99 Regular Backup of Critical System Components for Windows Server and M 6.76 Creating an Emergency Plan for Windows System Failure.

The following is a description of the Windows Server 2003 measures.



