#B 3.407 Embedded system
## Description 
Embedded systems are information processing systems that are integrated into a larger system or product, where they perform control, regulation and data processing tasks and are often not directly perceived by the user. If an embedded system is low-resource, i. if its resources are extremely limited in terms of memory, CPU, and power, and it has no user interface, it is called a deep embedded system. Examples of such deep embedded systems include pacemakers and subsystems of cars and airplanes.

Embedded systems can be found both in the field of high technology, such. As the aerospace, medical, telecommunications and automotive technology, as well as in the consumer and Haushaltsger tebereich.

An embedded system is characterized by the fact that, unlike e.g. As a PC, one or more well-defined tasks. It forms a functional unit in terms of software and hardware, which only fulfills these defined tasks. Embedded systems software is referred to as firmware and is usually stored in flash memory, EPROM, EEPROM, or ROM, and is not interchangeable by the user or interchangeable only with special means or functions. It essentially consists of the boot loader, the operating system and the application, whereby specialized systems do not use an operating system. Embedded systems are indeed specialized devices, but in contrast to pure hardware implementation (ASIC) universal computers. The platforms may be different CPU architectures or flexible highly integrated Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) devices.

Embedded systems either have no operator interface or use special peripherals, such as functional buttons, rotary switches and displays designed for the respective purpose. The range of output units ranges from a simple signal lamp via LCDs to complex cockpit displays. Embedded systems often communicate via data buses, which are heterogeneously networked in complex systems. In addition, peripheral components such as sensors and actuators can be connected via several different and multi-channel input / output ports. Some types of embedded systems have a web interface that allows configuration settings to be made via the browser.

The requirements for embedded systems are application-specific, but can be characterized as follows:

* Robust, low-interference function
* Complexity of hardware and software adapted to application
* Responsiveness mostly within defined time limits
* Several different interfaces (data bus, analog and digital I / O ports)
* Direct interaction with sensors and actuators


This module is generally concerned with embedded systems and should be applicable to a wide range of different embedded systems. Dedicated security features, such as control and display systems or specific hardware and software architectures are not discussed in more detail.

A particular application of an embedded system are smart cards. The cards usually have a processor, memory and I / O interfaces. For smart cards as well, although basic security aspects are addressed in this module, no specific aspects are considered.

The building block is basically useful for an information network with one or more embedded systems, if they meet the following criteria:

* The embedded system is procured separately and is not an integral part of a surrounding system.
* It is possible to monitor and influence the processes of selection, procurement and, where appropriate, production of the embedded system.
* The implementation of the measures of this module is possible and verifiable.
* The embedded system does not provide direct user interaction.




## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional components have to be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT basic protection.



###Planning and conception
Careful planning and design is indispensable for embedded systems. If an embedded system itself is developed or a development contract is awarded, the principles of safe development must be taken into account (see M 2.378 System Development). Development tools must be error-free and must not be manipulated unrecognized (see M 2.567 Selection of Trustworthy Development Tools). In order to demonstrate the required level of security for an embedded system in the event of increased protection requirements, a check must be carried out in accordance with recognized criteria (see M 2.66 Observing the contribution of the certification for procurement).

The security properties or the framework for security functions of an embedded system are already limited by conceptual definitions. The fundamental decision for software-hardware partitioning must take into account the different security features of the software or hardware implementations (see M 4.482 Hardware Implementation of Embedded System Functions). To increase system stability, hardware or software-based memory protection should be implemented if required (see M 4.484 Memory protection for embedded systems). The operating system used should, according to the current state of the art, be crash-proof and have few attack points (see M 4.485 Secure Operating System for Embedded Systems). To ensure the integrity and confidentiality of programs and user data, cryptographic procedures should be used (see M 4.90 Deployment of cryptographic procedures on the various layers of the ISO / OSI reference model). Keys can be securely generated and stored in a hardware security module (Trusted Platform Module) so that information and components can be securely authenticated (see M 4.483 Using cryptographic processors or coprocessors (Trusted Platform Module) for embedded systems).

Regulations for the later operation should already be specified in the planning phase (see M 2.562 Regulation of the use of embedded systems).



###procurement
Before an embedded system is procured, its requirements must be determined. The criteria list must also include the required security properties (see M 2.564 Embedded System Procurement Criteria). The procured systems or components must conform exactly to the specification and the procurement process must be designed so that it can not be manipulated. (See M 2.563 Selection of a trusted supplier and logistics chain as well as a qualified manufacturer for embedded systems).



###implementation
Embedded systems are to be tested to the required extent during development and before the start of real operation (see M 2.568 Test Procedure for Software). They are to be protected against physical manipulation (see M 4.487 Tamper protection (detection, prevention, defense) in embedded systems). Only the required physical and logical interfaces may be present and access may only be possible after successful authentication (see M4.488 Disabling unused interfaces and services in embedded systems). The boot process must not be compromisable (see M 4.489 Safe and authenticated boot process for embedded systems).



###business
If the embedded system is operated in harsh environments, it should be protected accordingly (see M 1.81 Material Protection of Embedded Systems).

Modifications to configuration parameters and the firmware must be planned, carried out and documented carefully (see M 2.34 Documentation of Changes to an Existing System and M 4.78 Careful Carrying out of Configuration Changes and M 4.177 Ensuring the integrity and authenticity of software packages).

During operation, an embedded system must not contain any code elements that are not part of the system functionality (see M4.491 Preventing Debugging Possibilities in Embedded Systems). Cryptovariables may not be compromised (see M 4.34 Use of Encryption, Checksum or Digital Signatures and M 2.46 Appropriate Key Management). If a web server is integrated, only the required components and functions must be installed or activated and equivalent security mechanisms must be configured as for Web servers in the office area (see M 4.492 Secure Configuration and Use of an Embedded Web Server).

One means of maintaining the security of an embedded system is to monitor the system or its individual components. Safety-related events in the operation of an embedded system must be documented as part of the technical possibilities (see M 2.565 Logging of safety-relevant events in embedded systems). In addition, all assemblies of an embedded system with increased requirements for availability and integrity should have and use built-in self-test facilities (see M 4.490 Automatic Monitoring of Assembly Functionality (BIST) for Embedded Systems).



###segregation
With the exclusion of an embedded system, confidential information about hardware, software and data must not reach unauthorized persons (see M 2.566 Safe Disposal of an Embedded System).



###emergency preparedness
With increased availability requirements, mechanisms should be in place to restore the last working configuration and state (see M 6.163 Embedded Systems Recovery).

If information classified on an embedded system, it must have an emergency capability (see also M 6.163 Embedded Systems Recovery).



