#B 3.102 servers under Unix
## Description 
Unix servers are Unix operating systems that provide services in a network that can be used by other IT systems. The first Unix system was developed in the early 1970s. There are now a variety of operating systems associated with the Unix family. Here is between

* classic Unix systems or Unix derivatives,
* certified UNIX systems (UNIX is a registered trademark of the Open Group, which may only carry certified systems that comply with the relevant specification); and
* functional Unix systems or Unix-like systems.


Examples of classic Unix systems are the BSD series (FreeBSD, OpenBSD and NetBSD), Solaris and AIX. Linux is not a classic Unix (the kernel is not based on the original source code from which the various Unix derivatives developed), but a functional Unix system. This module considers all operating systems of the Unix family, including Linux as a functional Unix system.

This module only describes the hazards and actions specific to a Unix server, so you should also consider those for general servers from B 3.101.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For the successful development of a server under Unix, a series of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the conception over the procurement up to the operation of this server. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
The following measures relate to the secure configuration and secure operation of a Unix server that offers services for clients in a network. The general planning of the network architecture is defined in module B 3.101 General Server, in which in particular the general network architecture and network-wide regulations are specified. The specifications that arise there for the server are to be observed. It makes sense to set up the server in a separate server room. The measures to be implemented are described in block B 2.4 Server room. If no server room is available, a server cabinet should be used, compare the B 2.7 protective cabinet module.

It is necessary to establish a procedure for the assignment of user IDs, which ensures that privileged and unprivileged user IDs are clearly separated. Furthermore, it must be ensured that uncontrolled access to the single-user mode is not possible, since otherwise all safety measures defined for the duration of the system can be undermined.



###procurement
The number of servers in the network as well as their use by clients have also been defined in module B 3.101 General Server, as well as the requirements for the products to be procured.



###implementation
Some of the actions described below relate to the configuration of each server, and other actions must be taken on servers and clients to take effect. For any connected clients, the measures described in the corresponding blocks must be implemented.

When configuring a Unix server, after the installation start with the procedure M 4.105 First steps after a Unix standard installation. Depending on the application scenario (see B 3.101 General Server), basic settings must be made so that only required services are active or the described precautions are taken and system logging is activated.

Furthermore, the access rights to user and system files and directories are to be assigned according to an overlapping scheme so that only those users and processes who really need them have access, paying particular attention to the rights defined by setuid and setgid (See also M 4.19 Restrictive attribute assignment for Unix system files and directories).



###business
In order to reliably maintain the security of a Unix server on the fly, it is essential to periodically check for any gaps and close them as soon as possible s. The logs generated by the system should also be considered for any irregularities.



###emergency preparedness
Since Unix systems are often compromised due to their complexity after a successful attack, it is important to define in advance rules to be followed in the event of a real or suspected loss of system integrity.

The following is a description of the server for Unix.



