#B 3.211 Client on Mac OS X
## Description 
This module deals with the client operating system Mac OS X from Apple. The X in Mac OS X stands for Roman numeral 10, but can also be seen as a reference to the X in Unix, Linux, AIX, and other Unix derivatives.

Mac OS X is based on Darwin, the freely available Unix operating system from Apple. Darwin is an open source kernel based on FreeBSD. The biggest difference between FreeBSD and Mac OS X is the graphical interface Aqua missing in FreeBSD.

Mac OS X can and may only be installed on IT systems from Apple. In a modified form, Mac OS is also used in other Apple products such as the iPhone, iPad or iPod touch. The basis of this module is the client version Snow Leopard (Mac OS 10.6), but it can be applied to all versions of Mac OS X, in which the treated software components (eg FileVault from version 10.3, Dashboard from version 10.4 or Time Machine from version 10.5) are represented.

The security of an operating system plays an important role in the security of an information network. OS-level vulnerabilities can compromise the security of all applications and the entire network. The emphasis in this module is on securing an IT system under Mac OS X, which is operated as a stand-alone system or as a client in a client-server network.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz. This includes the block B 3.201 General Client. If Mac OS X is operated on a laptop, the B 3.203 laptop must also be used.

This module describes actions to protect a Mac OS X client with normal protection needs. Only applications that are included in the standard feature set of Mac OS X are considered.

To securely configure clients on Mac OS X, there are a number of things to do, from planning and design to installation and operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Mac OS X clients should not be deployed in an institution without their deployment being planned and aligned with internal security policies, as described in M 2.478 Planning for the Secure Use of Mac OS X. For this, among other things, the requirements for the use of Mac OS X must be clarified and notes on the user and administration concept and advice on an appropriate level of data protection and encryption are created. M 4.375 Using the Sandbox feature on Mac OS X describes a method to restrict the rights of applications running Mac OS X. It must first be clarified in advance which applications should be executed in a sandbox and which access rights should be granted to these applications. It's also important to plan to use Program Access Control on Mac OS X because more rigorous client configuration may be required depending on the application. Notes can be found in M 4.378 Program Access Restrictions on Mac OS X. Since the password strength makes a high contribution to the security of an IT system, it must be planned in advance which properties a password must have. At a minimum, the recommendations in M 4.376 Setting Password Policies on Mac OS X should be implemented.



###implementation
When installing a client on Mac OS X, there are a number of things you can do to improve the security of the system. Hearing the system increases safety by closing gaps that are usually present after a standard installation. See M 4.371 Configuration of Mac OS X Client for recommendations. Afterwards, for each user account, M .4.374 User Account Access Protection should be implemented under Mac OS X to increase the security level for each account. Using Mac OS X's personal firewall is never a replacement for a security gateway, but it should still be enabled and properly configured. Information about this is included in the configuration of Mac OS X Personal Firewall. To encrypt the user folder, you can use the action M 4.372 Using FileVault on Mac OS X.

In order for a Mac OS X client to provide as few services as possible on the network, and thus less invasive options, as many network services as possible should be disabled (see M 5.165 Disabling Unnecessary Mac OS X Network Services). Similarly, it may be useful to disable unnecessary hardware, for example, to prevent the misuse of computer microphones or cameras (see M 4.373 deactivation of unneeded hardware in Mac OS X).



###business
The smooth operation of Mac OS X clients should be ensured through regular checks and evaluations of the log files. In particular, irregularities should be considered more closely. Information on this can be found in the M 4.26 Regular Unix system security check and M 4.25 Using the Unix system logging. If confidential information is to be transported or stored outside of the user's folder, users must be informed and trained about M .4.379 Secure Data Storage and Safe Transport on Mac OS X. Administrators will also need to be notified of the M .4.377 Mac OS X Applications application signature verification to ensure that each new application can verify their valid signature.



###segregation
When segregating or decommissioning a system, it must be ensured that third parties do not have access to security-relevant information. Therefore, not only removable data carriers but also locally stored user data must be reliably deleted when the storage medium or the IT system is discarded. To safely erase information on Mac OS X, you must take action M 6.148 Disposal of a Mac OS X system.



###emergency preparedness
In order to return to normal operation as soon as possible after a hardware failure or data loss, the recommendations of the procedures should be M 6.146 Backing up and restoring Mac OS X clients and M 6.147 Restoring system parameters when using Mac OS Xumgesetzt be. The M 4.380 Use of Apple Software Restore on Mac OS X includes additional information to create an identical copy of a system. This system image can be used to restore a client on Mac OS X or to play a standard image over the network to all Mac OS X clients.

The following is a description of the action block for the Mac OS X device:



