#B 3.212 Client on Windows 7
## Description 
This module deals with the client operating system Microsoft Windows 7 in the version Enterprise, short Windows 7 Enterprise. If necessary, different features of Windows 7 Professional and Windows 7 Ultimate are displayed.

Windows 7 is the successor to Microsoft's Windows Vista operating system. The security of a client operating system, such as Windows 7, plays an important role in the security of the entire information network. Weaknesses in the operating system of a client endanger the security of all IT systems, information and ultimately the entire information network.

The focus of this module is on the use of clients in a domain environment. Important deviating issues that apply specifically to Windows 7 on single-user computers or in a workgroup are highlighted as such.

In Windows 7, Microsoft has incorporated some changes to the previous versions of Windows to improve security. In addition, Microsoft has further developed existing security features of earlier versions of Windows and adopted them in Windows 7. This includes the security center from Windows XP with Service Pack 2 and Vista, which was extended to the maintenance center under Windows 7.

Examples of Windows 7-specific security features include:

* AppLocker for protection against installation and execution of unapproved software (only available in Windows 7 Enterprise and Ultimate)
* BitLocker To Go for encrypting removable media by non-admin users


The server-specific security measures that are relevant when operating the clients in a domain environment are described in server building blocks such as B 3.101 General Server, B 3.108 Windows Server 2003, and Windows B 3.109 Windows Server 2008.

Modern IT systems are exposed to a multitude of dangers in daily operation. Often, successful attacks exploit certain misconfigurations of one or more system components or conceptual weaknesses in the system architecture. Clients with a Microsoft operating system are an attractive target for attackers because of their popularity. This is shown by the numerous published vulnerabilities and attacks.

IT systems running the Windows 7 operating system are subject to the following typical threats:



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional blocks have to be implemented in addition to this block, according to the results of the modeling after IT-Grundschutz.

Windows 7 already provides some security mechanisms in the basic configuration. Other security mechanisms must first be set up by those responsible. The central configuration and enforcement of technical security measures can be supported by Active Directory (AD).

Where central configuration via AD is not available, technical measures must be set up decentralized on each client using local security policies. For this purpose, configuration files can be created centrally and transferred to the clients by means of suitable mechanisms and installed there.

When describing the configurations below, a Windows Server 2003/2008 domain structure in the AD functional level is assumed to be Windows Server 2003/2008.

For the secure configuration of clients under Windows 7, a number of measures are required, beginning with the conception over the implementation (installation / configuration) to the operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
When using Windows 7, the appropriate version must first be selected (see M 2.440 Suitable selection of a Windows version for Windows Vista clients) and their use planned (see M 2.324 Introduction to Windows) Plan clients from Windows XP). It is important to distinguish whether an application environment is completely new, or whether an existing environment is being migrated to the Windows 7 operating system. A security policy has to be developed for the use of Windows 7. An existing security policy can be adapted to the properties of Windows 7 or a new policy specifically tailored to the properties of Windows 7 can be developed (see M .2.325 Security Planning for Windows Clients as of Windows XP).

In a domain environment, various security settings can be created and maintained using a centralized management tool such as Active Directory. Other security settings can be centrally generated and transferred to the clients by appropriate means. In M 2.326 Group Policy Planning for Clients as of Windows XP, notes and recommendations for configuring clients under Windows 7 are given.

Windows 7 supports the ability to remotely administer clients and also provides the means to remotely access other systems through Windows 7. Appropriate definitions must already be made in the planning phase, so that no unauthorized persons can log on to the client via remote administration. The relevant aspects are described in the measure M 2.327 Security for remote access to clients as of Windows XP.

In order to use Windows 7 on mobile computers, appropriate security aspects have to be taken into account in the planning phase. The measure M 2.442 Use of client operating systems from Windows Vista on mobile systems includes the aspects specific to Windows Vista and Windows 7.



###implementation
In the implementation phase, all measures are taken that specifically prepare safe operation. These include, in particular, measures for the safety during installation and basic configuration of the system.

After the organizational and planning preparatory work has been completed, the Windows 7 systems can be installed. The installation must be carried out with special care, see M 4.248 Secure installation of Windows client operating systems. The aspects to be considered for the configuration of a Windows 7 system must have been determined during the planning phase.

In order to safely run software written for older versions of Windows under Windows 7, it is necessary to know the various techniques (for example, VirtualPC XP-Mode) and to use them safely (see M .44.424 Secure use of older software from Windows 7).

By default, Windows 7 has many features that are primarily intended for home users. This includes, for example, the homegroup for sharing and accessing services on a local network. These must be restricted in the environment of an institution (see M 4.423 Using the homegroup function as of Windows 7) to ensure safe operation of a Windows 7 client in the network.

Windows 7 must be activated before permanent use. Background M 4.336 calls activation of Windows systems from Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement.



###business
The implementation is ideally carried out initially in a test installation. After a successful test, the installation of Windows 7 is carried out on the designated clients and the transition to normal operation. From a security point of view, the following aspects should be considered:

* The aspects to be considered in normal operation are summarized in M 4.146 Secure Operation of Windows Client Operating Systems.
* One means of maintaining the security of a Windows 7 system is to monitor the system or its individual components. The relevant recommendations can be found in M 4.344 Monitoring of Windows systems as of Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008.
* Windows 7 systems, like other IT systems, are vulnerable. To reduce the likelihood of a successful attack on an acceptable level, Windows 7 systems must be kept up-to-date. The corresponding recommendations can be found in M 4.249 Keeping Windows client systems up to date.
* For centralized monitoring and configuration of security settings, maintenance settings, and troubleshooting, Windows 7 offers the Maintenance Center feature. In order to ensure the safe use of the maintenance center, measure M 4.420 Safe use of the maintenance center under Windows 7 must be implemented.
* A regular check of the current security settings and generally the existing security guidelines is an important contribution to the security of the Windows 7 systems during operation. The aspects to be considered here are summarized in M 2.330 Regular Checking of the Security Guidelines and their Implementation for Windows Clients as of Windows XP.
* Windows 7 offers some administration tools that are also recommended from a security point of view, as they can help to avoid security-related configuration errors, among other things. In addition, these tools are useful for error analysis or revision (see M 4.243 Administration Tools on Windows Client Operating Systems).
* An operating Windows 7 system must be reactivated under certain conditions. Hints and recommendations for reactivation can be found in M 4.343 Reactivation of Windows systems as of Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement.
* With Windows 7, in addition to the hard disk encryption introduced under Windows Vista (see M 4.337 Using BitLocker Drive Encryption), BitLocker To Go can also be used to encrypt removable data carriers. The security-relevant aspects regarding the use of this application are described in the measure M 4.422 Use of BitLocker To Go as of Windows 7.




###segregation
On clients leaving an area or being discarded, locally stored user data should be deleted. This also applies to defective data carriers that are exchanged. If data on data carriers can no longer be reliably erased, the data carrier must be destroyed in an appropriate manner. Recommendations can be found in B 1.15 Deleting and destroying data.

It should be noted that access to archived data must be retained according to the archiving periods, even if the originally recording IT system is discarded.



###emergency preparedness
In addition to safeguarding during operation, emergency preparedness also plays an important role. Advice on emergency preparedness can be found in M 6.76 Creating an emergency plan for the failure of Windows systems. Recommendations for data backup are included in M 6.78 Backup under Windows Clients.



###Manahmenbndel
The following is a description of the action block for the Client client under Windows 7.



