#B 3.210 Client on Windows Vista
## Description 
This module deals with the Windows Vista client operating system in the Enterprise version, or Windows Vista Enterprise for short. If necessary, different features of Windows Vista Business and Windows Vista Ultimate are presented.

Windows Vista is the successor product to Microsoft's operating system Windows XP Professional or Home. The security of a client operating system such as Windows Vista plays an important role in the security of the entire information network. Vulnerabilities in the operating system of a client endanger the security of all IT systems and ultimately the entire information network.

The focus in this module is on the operation of clients in a domain environment. Important deviating issues that apply specifically to Windows Vista on stand-alone computers or in a workgroup are highlighted as such.

The server-specific security measures that are relevant when operating the clients in a domain environment are described in the server building blocks such as B 3.106 server under Windows 2000 and B 3.108 Windows Server 2003.

Clients with a Microsoft operating system are an attractive target for attackers because of their popularity. This is shown by the numerous published vulnerabilities and attacks. Microsoft has therefore implemented some changes in Windows Vista compared to the previous versions of Windows, which should improve the security level of the client. In addition, Microsoft has further developed existing security features of earlier versions of Windows and then adopted them in Windows Vista. These include, for example, the Windows XP Security Center with Service Pack 2. Examples of Vista-specific security features include:

* BitLocker Drive Encryption as hard disk encryption for the protection of confidential data (only available in Windows Vista Enterprise and Ultimate).
* User Account Control (UAC) to protect system integrity when working with administrator accounts.
* Protected mode of Internet Explorer IE7 as protection against unnoticed downloading and execution of malicious code while surfing the Internet (requires UAC) and other security features to protect the integrity of user and system data.
* File and registry virtualization for the secure execution of legacy applications as standard users that could only be used under the administrator account before Windows Vista (requires UAC).


In addition to new and changed security features, Windows Vista is characterized in particular by numerous changes regarding the processes and requirements for activation.



## Countermeasures 
In order to secure an information network, additional blocks must be implemented in addition to this block, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

Windows Vista systems are usually part of an information network. This results in special attack possibilities. Windows Vista already provides some security measures in the basic configuration. Other security measures must first be implemented by those responsible. The central configuration and enforcement of technical security measures can be supported by Active Directory (AD).

Where central configuration is not possible using Active Directory, technical measures must be set decentrally on the individual clients via local security policies. For this purpose, configuration files can be created centrally and transferred to the clients by means of suitable mechanisms and installed there.

When describing the configurations below, a Windows Server 2003 domain structure in the AD feature level is assumed to be Windows Server 2003.

For the secure configuration of clients under Windows Vista, a number of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the conception from installation to operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
When using Windows Vista, the appropriate version must first be selected (see M 2.440 Suitable selection of a Windows version for clients as of Windows Vista) and their use planned (see M 2.324 Introduction of Windows on Plan clients from Windows XP). It is important to distinguish whether a deployment environment is completely new, or whether an existing environment is being migrated to the Windows Vista operating system. A security policy must be developed for the use of Windows Vista. An existing security policy can be adapted to the properties of Windows Vista, or a new policy tailored to the characteristics of Windows Vista can be developed (see M 2.325 Security Planning for Windows Clients as of Windows XP).

In a domain environment, various security settings can be created and maintained using a centralized management tool such as Active Directory. Other security settings can be centrally generated and transferred to the clients by appropriate means. In M 2.326 Group Policy Planning for Clients as of Windows XP, notes and recommendations for configuring clients under Windows Vista are provided.

Windows Vista supports the ability to remotely administer the client and provides the ability to remotely access other systems using Windows Vista. If these options are to be used, appropriate considerations must already be made in the planning phase, so that no unauthorized persons can log on to the client. The relevant aspects are described in the measure M 2.327 Security for remote access to clients as of Windows XP.

If Windows Vista is to be used on mobile computers, appropriate security aspects must be taken into account in the planning phase. The measure M 2.442 Use of client operating systems from Windows Vista on mobile systems recognizes the aspects specific to Windows Vista.

Of particular importance for the use of Windows Vista is the activation of the system. Background M die4.336 calls the activation of Windows systems as of Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement.



###implementation
In the implementation phase, all measures are taken that specifically prepare safe operation. These include, in particular, measures for the safety during installation and basic configuration of the system.

After the organizational and planning preparatory work has been carried out, the installation of Windows Vista systems can take place. The installation must be carried out with special care. M 4.248 Secure installation of Windows client operating systems summarizes the relevant recommendations. The aspects to consider when configuring a Windows Vista system must have been determined during the planning phase.



###business
The implementation is ideally carried out initially in a test installation. After a successful test, the installation of Windows Vista is done on the clients provided for this purpose and the transition to normal operation. From a security point of view, the following aspects should be considered:

* A Windows Vista system is often used by a large number of users with very different needs and demands on the system. As a result, an appropriate number of user profiles must be created and maintained.
* The aspects to be considered in normal operation are summarized in M 4.146 Secure Operation of Windows Client Operating Systems.
* One means of maintaining the security of a Windows Vista system is to monitor the system or its individual components. The relevant recommendations can be found in M 4.344 Monitoring of Windows systems as of Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008.
* Windows Vista systems, like other IT systems, are exposed to general security risks. To reduce the likelihood of a successful attack on an acceptable level, Windows Vista systems must be kept up-to-date. The corresponding recommendations can be found in M 4.249 Keeping Windows client systems up to date.
* The Windows Vista systems already in operation must take into account the effects of loading service packs and hotfixes.
* A regular check of the current security settings and generally the existing security guidelines is an important contribution to the security of the Windows Vista systems during operation. The aspects to be considered here are summarized in M 2.330 Regular Checking of the Security Guidelines and their Implementation for Windows Clients as of Windows XP.
* Windows Vista offers some administrative tools that are also recommended from a security point of view, as they can help to avoid security-related configuration errors, among other things. In addition, these tools are useful for error analysis or revision (see M 4.243 Administrative Tools under Windows Client Operating Systems).
* A running Windows Vista system must be reactivated under certain conditions. Hints and recommendations for reactivation can be found in M 4.343 Reactivation of Windows systems as of Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement.




###segregation
On workstations leaving or leaving an area, locally stored user data should be deleted. This also applies to defective data carriers that are exchanged. If data on data carriers can no longer be reliably erased, the data carrier must be destroyed in an appropriate manner. Recommendations can be found in B 1.15 Deleting and destroying data.

It should be noted that access to archived data must be retained according to the archiving periods, even if the original recording IT system is rejected.



###emergency preparedness
In addition to safeguarding during operation, emergency preparedness also plays an important role. Advice on emergency preparedness can be found in M 6.76 Creating an emergency plan for the failure of Windows systems. Recommendations for data backup are included in M 6.78 Backup under Windows Clients.

The following is a description of the action block for the Client module under Windows Vista.



