#B 3.109 Windows Server 2008
## Description 
With Windows Server 2008, Microsoft has released a server operating system that brings significant security improvements over its predecessor in terms of security. With the release of Windows Server 2008 R2, further improvements and enhancements are available that make Windows 2008 the equivalent of Windows 7 on the client side.

Windows Server 2008 can be used as an operating system for servers with a variety of tasks, from Windows domain controllers through Active Directory servers and database servers to application servers or infrastructure services such as DHCP, DNS or VPN. Not all functions have to be activated, the selection depends on the application scenarios. This module can not cover all application scenarios in detail, but is limited to the common operating system platform and essential, comprehensive security functions.

This module is always to be used if Windows Server 2008 is used as the operating system, also in the version as Windows Server Core. Windows Server 2008-based services must be independently covered by appropriate layer 5 (application) building blocks or by a complementary risk analysis.

As far as in this block and the associated measures and dangers of Windows Server 2008 is mentioned, this includes the R2 version. Changes and special features in R2 are explicitly stated.



## Countermeasures 
The measures described here supplement the measures from module B 3.101 General server-specific aspects for servers under the Windows Server 2008 operating system. In order to safeguard the information network under consideration, in addition to this module, it is necessary Further modules are implemented according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.



###Planning and conception
Careful planning is indispensable for every server used. In M 4.418 Planning the Use of Windows Server 2008, the basic recommendations are summarized here. Changes to previous Microsoft server operating systems describe M 4.408 overview of new security-related features in Windows Server 2008.

In the corporate environment, volume licensing agreements are usually used to procure Windows servers. For the associated activation, the right conditions have to be created to ensure the availability of the systems (see M 4.336 Activation of Windows systems as of Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement). This also includes preparing the reactivation, which may become necessary in particular after configuration changes (M 4.343 Reactivation of Windows systems as of Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement).

For a safe operation of the system, further aspects have to be taken into account already in the planning phase, from general definitions for system administration (M 2.364 Planning of administration as of Windows 2003) via the group guidelines (M 2.326 Planning of Group Guidelines for System Administration) Clients from Windows XP) up to the integration into a system monitoring (M 2.489 Planning of system monitoring under Windows Server 2008).

Depending on the intended area of ??application of the server, further aspects have to be planned. For example, an organization-specific public-key infrastructure (M 2.232 Planning of the Windows CA structure as of Windows 2000) or in the framework of Windows-based virtualization solutions (M 2.490 Planning of the use of virtualization with Hyper-V).



###procurement
Before a Windows 2008 server system is procured, its requirements must be clarified. This not only includes the hardware requirements, but also the right edition should be selected (M 4.409 Procurement of Windows Server 2008) and the necessary infrastructure for the activation to be considered (M 4.336 Activation of Windows). Systems from Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement).



###implementation
To set up the operating system, the templates provided by the manufacturer (M 2.491 Use of roles and security templates under Windows Server 2008) help. On this basis, a secure basic configuration must be created (M 4.280 Secure basic configuration as of Windows Server 2003). For this purpose, unlike in earlier versions of Windows Server, the default settings can be largely adopted. If an older Windows operating system is replaced by Windows Server 2008, appropriate migration planning must be carried out and implemented (M 4.412 Secure migration from Windows Server 2003 to Server 2008).

As with previous Windows Server versions, the protection of locally connected devices (M 4.52 device protection under NT-based Windows systems), the use of scripts and script environments (M 2.367 use of Commands and scripts from Windows Server 2003), the configuration of the system services (M 4.284 handling of services as of Windows Server 2003) as well as sufficient password protection (M 4.48 password protection under Windows systems) are important.

For the file system, it must be specified whether logging of the last file access should be used. This logging facilitates the identification of security incidents, but can have a negative impact on the performance and must therefore be weighed up (M 4.342 Activation of the Last Access time stamp as of Windows Vista). New features such as user account control (M 4.340 use of Windows user account control UAC as of Windows Vista) and the option of integrity protection (M 4.341 integrity protection as of Windows Vista) can be used for one, compared to previous versions, provide improved system security and should therefore be used. If the server is used as Active Directory, the explanations in M 4.414 Overview of Active Directory updates as of Windows Server 2008 are also to be considered.

In the case of increased protection requirements, extended protective measures are recommended, such as the establishment of restricted user environments (M 2.32 establishment of a restricted user environment), additional measures to secure the network communication (M 4.277 protection of the SMB network). , LDAP and RPC communication under Windows servers or M 5.90 use of IPSec under Windows) or the application control with the tool AppLocker (M 4.419 application control from Windows 7 with AppLocker). Data encryption mechanisms are available at the disk and file system levels (M 4.337 Using BitLocker Drive Encryption and M 4.147 Secure Use of EFS on Windows).



###business
The most important regular operating tasks are summarized in M 2.369 Regular safety-related maintenance measures of a Windows Server 2003 and are supplemented by the secure administration of user accounts and authorizations (M 2.370 Administration of authorizations as of Windows Server 2003). The system should be monitored carefully so that availability problems and security incidents can be quickly detected (M 4.344 Monitoring of Windows systems as of Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008).

As with all IT systems, working patch management is also a key element in maintaining system security for Windows servers. For this purpose, a tool from Microsoft is available with Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) (M 4.417 Patch Management with WSUS as of Windows Server 2008).

Users and administrators of the server must pay attention to the special features when deleting files (M 4.56 Safe deletion under Windows operating systems). With the new options for biometric fingerprint authentication, there is also an alternative to password entry (M 4.415 Secure operation of biometric authentication under Windows).



###segregation
When segregating Windows servers, the measures described in block B 3.101 General Server must be implemented. In addition, the individual accounts must be deactivated or deleted (M 2.371 Regulated deactivation and deletion of unused accounts).



###emergency preparedness
As with all other central IT systems, appropriate contingency planning must also be created for Windows servers (M 6.76 Creating an emergency plan for the failure of Windows systems). A central element of emergency preparedness is data backup, which must also include relevant areas of the operating system (M 6.99 Regular backup of important system components for Windows servers). In the case of increased availability requirements, an additional provision can be made for redundancies (M 6.43 Use of redundant Windows servers).



