#B 3.303 Storage Solutions / Cloud Storage
## Description 
Storage solutions are used by institutions to store their digital data. The steady growth of this data and the increasing emergence of unstructured data require the efficient use of modern storage solutions within an institution. The requirements for such storage solutions are also subject to change, which can be observed, for example, in the following aspects:

* The data of an institution should be available anytime, anywhere and for different application scenarios. As a result, frequently increased availability requirements apply to modern storage solutions.
* Changing the way of working to working in distributed teams requires a growing variety of applications in many institutions that need access to data.
* The increasing digitization of all information in an institution makes it necessary to comply with and comply with far-reaching legal requirements (compliance requirements).
* Storage solutions should be dynamically adaptable to the constantly changing requirements and be able to provide storage space centrally.


In the past, storage solutions were often implemented by directly connecting a storage medium to a server. However, these so-called direct-attached storage (DAS) systems can no longer cover the current and future requirements. In addition, they often bring sharply rising costs due to growing hardware and administration needs. In addition, new techniques such as live migration of data within and across storage systems do not work with DAS. Additionally, direct attached storage solutions can not be managed efficiently. The use of centralized storage solutions has thus long been considered necessary and is widespread in practice. In this context, this module deals with:

* Storage Solutions: A storage solution consists of one or more storage networks and at least one storage system.
* Storage networks: Storage networks allow access to the storage systems on the one hand, and replication of data between storage systems on the other.
* Storage systems: A storage system is the central instance, which provides space for other systems. The use of a storage system also allows the simultaneous access of multiple systems (eg, virtual and physical servers, clients) to the available storage space.


Data backup devices that are connected to the storage system or to the storage network are considered in block B 1.12 Archiving. Conceptual aspects of data backup are explained in module B 1.4 Backup Concepts.

The realization of central storage solutions is possible in different ways, depending on the application scenario and the associated requirements:

Network Attached Storage (NAS) provides access to the storage systems through the NFS (Network File System) and CIFS (Common Internet File System) protocols. The main application case is to provide file server services. Many providers therefore use the term filer for such systems.

For NAS systems, therefore, the module B 3.101 General server is also to be used additionally.

Storage Area Networks (SANs) are typically created through a dedicated storage network between storage systems and attached servers or terminals. SANs are designed for serial, high-speed, and continuous transmission of large amounts of data. Today, they are based on high-availability, high-performance installations based on the implementation of the Fiber Channel or IP protocol, as well as on a corresponding combination in the form of Fiber Channel over Ethernet (FCoE).

For storage networks, therefore, block B 4.1 Local Area Network must also be used.

In addition to these widespread storage systems and storage networks, further variants are to be considered:

Storage systems that can provide both NAS and SAND data are often referred to as Hybrid Storage or Unified Storage. Outwardly, such a storage system can operate as both NAS and SAN. This mixed operation is made possible by the fact that corresponding system components are used and configured accordingly. Thus, a storage system can present itself as a filer for some applications via Ethernet connection and thus provide file services via CIFS and NFS as well as for other servers via Fiber Channel, Fiber Channel over Ethernet or SCSI storage capacity do.

For hybrid systems, therefore, the modules B 3.101 General Server and B 4.1 Local Area Networks should also be used.

Object storage (often referred to as object-based storage) provides object-based access to data over traditional block-based and file-based access methods.

Object-based storage solutions store data associated with its metadata on a disk in the form of objects rather than files. By assigning a unique object ID (hash value), which is held in the metadata of the object, the object can be uniquely identified. Access to object-based storage is via a leading application. The application accesses the object storage via a special interface (Application Programming Interface (API)) and its possible commands or directly perIP. In the case of perAPI access, the leading application must support the vendor-specific API of the object storage. Object storage is used primarily in the area of ??archiving, document management and when storing objects in a cloud.

For object-based storage solutions, the building blocks B 3.101 General Server and B 5.24 Web Services must therefore also be used.

In connection with further developments in the storage environment, the concept of cloud storage is increasingly establishing itself. These are storage solutions as a basis for cloud services. The memory solution per se remains largely unchanged, but there is a way of accessing the stored data that differs from the classical SAN or NAS architectures. This is usually realized by means of a web service interface (Representational State Transfer REST & Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP).

A particular challenge in connection with cloud storage is the multi-client capability of the overall solution. From the user's point of view, it is therefore also necessary to model the blocks B 1.17 cloud usage and B 5.24 web services. From the operator's point of view, the module B 5.23 Cloud Management has to be considered.



## Countermeasures 
In order to secure an information network, further modules must be implemented, in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

To be able to safely set up and operate a storage solution, a number of measures have to be implemented. Starting with the strategic decision on which type of storage solution to choose, it is followed by their conception and the procurement of the corresponding components. Finally, the installation and configuration of the memory solution leads to the transition into the operating phase, at the end of which measures for the proper sorting out of the memory solution are to be implemented.

At the same time as the operational phase, it must be ensured through appropriate emergency preparedness planning that the operation can be maintained even in an emergency. Information security management and revision ensure compliance with the regulations.

The step-by-step construction and operation of a storage solution as well as the measures that should be taken into account in the respective phases are listed below:



###Planning and conception
Once the requirements have been analyzed, it should be decided by those responsible, which expression of the described storage solutions should ideally be used within the institution in the future. In a first step, it is necessary to clarify which technology is suitable for adequately covering the determined requirements (see M 2.362 Selection of a suitable memory solution and M 2.351 Planning of memory solutions).

The starting point for planning is basically the application to be supplied with central storage capacity. Only in this way can the security requirements for the storage system and the storage network and thus for the storage solution in its entirety be meaningfully defined. Key planning parameters include the expected growth in storage space required by the application over time, as well as the required performance and security requirements. In the process, the design of the storage components must be defined by foreseeable developments and sound growth forecasts in such a way that these central IT components can permanently meet the requirements of the institution. The derived requirements for the storage solution to be used should then be recorded in a security policy (see M 2.525 Creating a security policy for storage solutions).

If it results from the requirement analysis that it is necessary to use a multi-client storage solution, then you have to define how the separation of the clients is to be implemented (see M 2.528 Planning the secure separation of clients in storage solutions). For higher availability or scalability requirements, we recommend the use of a high-availability storage solution (see M 2.354 Deployment of a high-availability SAN solution). Further measures to be implemented in the event of an increased need for protection, in particular with regard to the confidentiality and integrity of the stored data, are the use of encryption mechanisms or the introduction of a zone concept (see M 4.448 Use of Encryption for memory solutions and M 4.449 introduction of a zone concept).

In addition to the pure estimation and planning of the required storage capacity, a suitable set-up of the storage solution must be examined in good time, in particular (see M 1.59 Appropriate installation of storage and archive systems). It is critical to question whether the server rooms or the data center are technically and organisationally suitable to accommodate storage solutions there. The actual installation will take place during the implementation phase.

The planning of a storage system must also be accompanied by the planning of an adequate data backup concept. For this purpose, the data protection concept (B 1.4 data protection concept) of the institution must be organizationally and technically adapted to the requirements resulting from the use of the selected storage solution.



###procurement
After the basic definition of the requirements for the storage solution to be used has been completed, the offers of potential manufacturers and suppliers must be examined and a suitable supplier selected (see M 2.355 Selection of suppliers f  a memory solution).

As a result, service level agreements (SLAs) are to be taken as part of the contract design with the selected service providers. The expression of the SLAs should correspond in a realistic manner to the identified requirements of the planning phase (see M 2.356 Contracting with service providers for storage solutions).



###implementation
After the organizational and planning preparatory work has been completed, the storage solution can be implemented. The successful implementation of the planned storage solution requires both the reconciliation of the identifiable requirements of the operation with the safety requirements determined as well as the documentation of a number of other regulations, requirements and settings (see M 2.526 Planning the operation of the storage solution).

Furthermore, from the safety point of view for the implementation phase, in particular the following measures should be observed:

* It is necessary to make a secure basic configuration of the storage solution (see M 4.274 Secure basic configuration of storage systems).
* As far as possible, the storage solution should be administered via a separate, secure network (see M 2.357 Structure of an Administration Network for Storage Systems).
* All administrators must be trained in the handling of the selected storage solution (see M 3.54 Training the storage system administrators).


The construction of a memory solution usually requires the implementation of a logical association between servers and the other components of the memory solution. This must be done according to the written requirements and planning of the previous phases (see M 5.130 Securing the SAN by Segmentation).

With the findings of the test phase, a system documentation is to be prepared, which comprehensively covers both the hardware and software used and also describes all the steps to be taken for the installation and individual configuration of the memory solution (see M .2.358 Documentation of the System Settings of Storage Systems).



###business
After successful initial installation and running a test phase, the normal operation can be started. From a security point of view, the following aspects should be considered:

* The need-based provision of the functionality of a storage solution requires their safe operation. Against this background, among other things, those utilities must be secured that serve the support of operational functions of the storage solution and therefore require extensive authorizations (see M 4.275 Secure operation of a storage solution).
* During the regular operation of a storage solution, data is collected, stored and further processed. If these data are no longer required, measures must be taken to ensure secure deletion (see M 2.527 Secure Deletion in SAN Environments).
* Memory solutions must be monitored and maintained during operation (see M 2.359 Monitoring and management of memory solutions).
* In addition to the monitoring and maintenance, which should above all ensure technical availability, further safety-relevant aspects must be checked (see M 2.360 Safety audits and reporting for storage systems).
* As an additional measure, with increased protection requirements for the integrity of the SAN fabric, we recommend the use of storage protocols with enhanced security features (see M 4.447 Ensuring Integrity of the SAN Fabric).




###segregation
Recommendations for the deinstallation of individual components and of complete systems, for example after termination of normal operation, can be found in the instruction M 2.361 Decommissioning of storage solutions.



###emergency preparedness
The use of storage solutions requires the revision and adaptation of existing IT emergency plans. Recommendations for emergency preparedness can be found in the M 6.98 emergency preparedness and emergency response for storage solutions.

The package of measures for this module is presented below.



