#B 3.209 Client on Windows XP
## Description 
Workstation PCs (APCs) with the Windows XP Professional operating system are considered. Windows XP is the successor of Windows 2000 Professional. The security of such an operating system plays an important role in security in an information network, as operating system vulnerabilities can compromise the security of all applications and the entire network. This module describes the security measures that have to be implemented for an APC with Windows XP. The measures relate in particular to the planning and operation of a Windows XP client in a domain environment, and installations of Windows XP on single-user computers are only mentioned in passing. The server-specific security measures that are relevant when operating the clients in a domain environment are described in the server blocks of Layer 3 (see, for example, block  B 3.106 Server under Windows 2000).



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

Due to the above mentioned special hazards for networked devices, some measures are expressly highlighted. In particular, measures to protect against attacks from the network must be carried out carefully. An efficient, centralized management of the clients makes an important contribution to the maintenance of a high security standard. Uniform configuration settings make it easy to monitor unwanted changes to the configuration, and security changes can be applied more quickly to all clients and software updates can be distributed more quickly. The majority of the recommended hardware / software measures can be implemented with centrally specified group guidelines. If the organization plans to use Microsoft Active Directory, this deployment must be thoroughly planned.

The management of Windows XP clients in Windows NT domain environments is a special case. In this case, only the Windows NT system policies are available as tools for central administration. However, due to the technical limitations of this solution, the use of system policies for Windows XP is not recommended. Managing clients on Windows XP should consider using Active Directory Group Policy.

Windows XP clients can be used in workgroups instead of domains. The management of all security features in this case takes place locally on each individual client. Shared resources on individual computers are difficult to centrally manage and monitor. Data backup is also a problem. However, due to networking some network-based measures can be applied, eg. the use of security templates to configure and automatically update the operating system using the Software Update Service.

For the successful and secure configuration of clients under Windows XP, a number of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the conception from installation to operation.

The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
After the decision to use Windows XP as a client operating system, the deployment should first be planned (see measure M 2.324 Planning to introduce Windows on clients as of Windows XP). At the same time, a security guideline must be developed (see measure M 2.325 Security Guidelines for Windows Clients as of Windows XP), which implements the existing security guidelines in the Windows XP context on the one hand, and the ones specific to Windows XP on the other hand Extensions defined.

In a networked environment, the use of a centralized management system is recommended. For this z. B. Microsoft Active Directory are used. In particular, the use of group policies allows a relatively simple centralized implementation of security requirements. When operating a Windows XP single system, the use of local group policies is recommended. The M 2.326 Group Policy Planning for Clients as of Windows XP includes recommendations for using Group Policy to configure and manage a Windows XP system.

Other aspects must be taken into account in the planning phase. Above all, these concern the secure configuration of a Windows XP system. The following measures are relevant for this:

* M 4.244 Secure system configuration of Windows client operating systems
* M 4.245 Basic settings for Windows Group Policy Objects
* M 4.246 Configuring system services on clients as of Windows XP
* M 5.123 Securing network communication under Windows
* M 4.247 Restrictive authorization assignment for client operating systems as of Windows Vista


If a company or a public authority intends to use Windows XP-specific remote access facilities, the appropriate technologies must be selected in the planning phase and associated security aspects must be evaluated (see measure M)  2.327 Security for remote access to clients as of Windows XP).

If Windows XP is to be used on mobile computers, specific security aspects must be taken into account in the planning phase. The measure M 2.328 use of Windows XP on mobile computers summarizes the aspects specific to Windows XP.

Windows XP offers some administrative tools that can help in the planning or testing phase to avoid configuration errors, which will undoubtedly bring a security benefit.

The measure M 4.243 Administration tools in Windows client operating systems Combines the most important tools.



###implementation
During the implementation phase, all measures are taken to prepare and ensure safe operation. These include, in particular, measures for the safety during installation and basic configuration of the system.

After the organizational and planning preparatory work has been carried out, the installation of Windows XP systems can take place. The installation must be carried out with special care. M 4.248 Secure installation of Windows client operating systems summarizes the relevant recommendations. The aspects to be considered for the configuration of a Windows XP system must have been determined during the planning phase.



###business
After the initial installation and a test operation phase, normal operation is started. From a security point of view, the following aspects should be considered:

* A Windows XP system generally changes on a daily basis. It must be ensured with every change that the safety is not impaired even after the change. The aspects to be considered are summarized in M 4.146 Secure Operation of Windows Client Operating Systems.
* One means of maintaining the security of a Windows XP network is to monitor the system or its individual components. The relevant measures can be found in M 4.148 Monitoring of a Windows 2000 / XP system. In particular, privacy aspects also play a role.
* Windows XP systems, like other IT systems, are exposed to general security risks. To decisively reduce the likelihood of a successful attack, Windows XP systems must be kept up to date. The corresponding recommendations are to keep M 4.249 Windows client systems up to date.
* Windows XP systems already in operation must take into account the effects of installing Service Pack 2 (see also M 2.329 Introduction to Windows XP SP2).
* A regular check of the current security settings and generally the existing security guidelines is decisive for the security of the Windows XP systems during operation. The aspects to be considered here are summarized in M 2.330 Regular Checking of the Security Guidelines and their Implementation for Windows Clients as of Windows XPSafety Guidelines and their Implementation.
* Windows XP offers some administrative tools that are also recommended from a security point of view, as they can help to avoid configuration errors, among other things. In addition, these tools are useful for error analysis or revision (see also M 4.243 Administrative Tools under Windows Client Operating Systems).




###segregation
If a Windows XP APC is shut down, care must be taken to ensure that the stored data does not fall into the wrong hands or can be misused. The stored data also includes passwords, cookies, temporary Internet files, etc. At the same time, it should be noted that access to the data is retained when the data is archived, even if, for example, the previous user of an APC has left the organization. The same requirements apply when an APC is translated from one user to another user.



###emergency preparedness
In addition to the protection during operation, however, the emergency preparedness also plays an important role, because only so the damage in an emergency can be reduced. Advice on emergency preparedness can be found in M 6.76 Creating an emergency plan for the failure of Windows systems. Notes on data backup are included in M 6.78 Backup under Windows Clients.

The following is a description of the measures for the Windows XP Client module.



