#B 3.404 mobile phone
## Description 
In this module, digital mobile phones are considered according to the Global System for Mobile communication (DMS) standard, UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System) and LTE (Long Term Evolution). With LTE, telephone calls are handled via data packets, so that module B 4.7 VoIP can be viewed additionally. If the mobile phone is a smartphone, then B 3.405 device is also to be used for smartphones, tablets and PDAs, and possibly B Bauste3.203 for laptop components. In addition, if the mobile uses VPN techniques to connect to the institution's network, for example, module B4.4 VPN should be considered.

To connect a mobile phone to a mobile network, it requires a SIM card (SIM Subscriber Identity Module). This can be differentiated in the mobile networks between the user and Ger t.

A mobile phone is identified by its Internationally Unique Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI). The user is identified by his International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI) stored on the SIM card. It will be assigned to the subscriber by the mobile service provider upon conclusion of the contract. It should be distinguished from its assigned telephone numbers (MSISDN) (at least one). This separation allows a subscriber to use different mobile phones with his SIM card

Among other things, the subscriber-related telephone number (MSISDN) is stored on the SIM card. Likewise, the cryptographic algorithms for authentication and payload encryption (between mobile phone and base station) are implemented there.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional blocks have to be implemented in addition to this block, according to the results of the modeling after IT-Grundschutz. A number of measures are required for mobile phones, from planning to operation to emergency preparedness. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
A security policy should be established describing the measures to be implemented for the safe handling of mobile phones (see M 2.188 Security Guidelines and Regulations for Mobile Phone Use). In the case of frequent and changing office use of mobile phones provided by the company or the authorities, it may be useful to keep these phones in a group store (see M 2.190 Setting up a mobile phone pool).



###implementation
There are various security mechanisms for mobile phones, depending on the mobile phone used, the SIM card and the chosen network operator. M 4.114 Using Mobile Phone Security Mechanisms provides an overview of the key security features of these devices and how they could be used.



###business
In order to ensure the orderly and reliable use of mobile phones, some measures must be implemented, including ensuring the supply of energy and, if necessary, protection against caller identification (see M 4.115 Ensuring the supply of energy to and from mobile phones M 5.79 Protection against caller identification in mobile phone use) If data is transmitted with the device, some specific measures must also be observed in order to ensure reliable functioning and to protect against misuse to be protected (see M 5.81 Secure data transfer via mobile phones). If the phone is lost, the SIM card of this phone should be immediately locked to prevent misuse and unnecessary costs (see M 2.189 Disabling the phone in case of loss). Special attention will need to be paid to the specific information security issues posed by mobile phones (see M 2.558 Information security for mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and PDAs).



###segregation
Since mobile phones usually contain confidential data, it is necessary to regulate how the devices are to be sorted out. In measure M 4.465 segregation of mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and PDAs are given recommendations. If the devices have removable memory cards, for these cards use measure M 2.13 Proper disposal of valuable equipment which describes how to dispose of the removable memory cards.



###emergency preparedness
Measure M 6.72 Emergency Prevention for Mobile Phones Describes important precautions that can be taken to protect the user from failure and loss of a mobile phone.

In the following the measures for the use of mobile phones are presented.



