#B 3.208 Internet PC
## Description 
The use of the Internet for obtaining information and communication has become a matter of course in many areas of public administration and the private sector. E-commerce and e-government applications are also becoming increasingly important. It offers the greatest possible convenience to provide the employees of an institution with Internet access directly via the workstation PC. However, this is usually integrated into a local area network (LAN), so that under certain circumstances, additional threats to the institution may arise.

To circumvent these problems or for other application-specific reasons, many authorities and companies provide stand-alone Internet PCs. An Internet PC is a computer that has an Internet connection, but is not connected to the institution's internal network. If there are several Internet PCs, these computers can also be networked with each other, for example, to use a common Internet connection. Internet PCs are usually used to allow employees to use Internet services while avoiding additional threats to the local network.

Considered is an Internet PC based on a Windows operating system or Linux. For the use of Internet services common browsers, such. B.Internet Explorer, Firefox or Chrome, as well as e-mail clients, such as. Microsoft Outlook, Outlook Express, Thunderbird or KMail. Depending on the application scenario, other programs may be installed for the use of other Internet services, such as news, instant messaging or Internet banking.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

If it is planned to make one or more Internet PCs available in a company or agency, the following steps should be taken with regard to information security:

* Conception of Internet PCs (see M 2.234 Conception of Internet PCs) To begin with, fundamental questions of the assignment must be defined, for example which Internet services should be used and who should be responsible for the administration of the Internet PCs Is permanent.
* Guidelines for the Use of Internet PCs (see M 2.235 Guidelines for the Use of Internet PCs) For the safe use of an Internet PC, binding guidelines must be established. This includes, for example, who may use the Internet PC when and for what purpose and, if necessary, how data is transported between the Internet PC and the home network.
* Secure installation of Internet PCs (see M 4.151 Secure installation of Internet PCs) Connecting to the Internet creates additional dangers for the applications installed on the Internet PC and for the stored data. A careful selection of operating system and software components and their safe installation is therefore particularly important.
* Secure configuration of installed components Depending on security requirements, the software components involved must be configured differently. This applies in particular to the browser used (see M 5.93 Security of WWW browsers when using Internet PCs), the e-mail client (see M 5.94 Security of e-mail clients when using Internet PCs ) and, if necessary, special e-business software.
* Secure operation of Internet PCs (see M 4.152 Secure operation of Internet PCs) One of the most important security measures when operating an Internet PC is the systematic and fastest possible import of security-relevant patches and updates. In addition to the operating system and protection against malicious programs, the browser and e-mail program must also be up to date. In order to detect attacks and abusive use, critical system events should also be logged.
* Data backup when using Internet PCs (see M 6.79 Data backup when using Internet PCs)


The procedure and the required extent of the data backup depends on the deployment scenario of the Internet PC.

The present module provides recommendations for the conception, configuration and operation of such an Internet PC. It is important that the measures listed here are not sufficient for a standard workstation PC, where several different applications are usually operated and processed with the valuable data. This package is aimed exclusively at the special application scenario Internet PC. Suitable safety recommendations for standard workstation PCs are described in other layer 3 client modules.

The following is a description of the measures for the Internet PC module.



