#B 4.1 Local networks
## Description 
A Local Area Network (LAN) is an association of network-enabled IT systems, such as: Clients, servers, routers or switches within a limited area. In order to network the IT systems, different transmission media can be used, such as twisted copper cables or fiber optic cables. Increasingly, the data is also transmitted wirelessly, eg. via WLAN. In addition to IT systems and cabling, the LAN technologies used, and in particular the underlying topology, are essential components of a LAN.

The cabling as well as the application-related IT systems, such as servers or clients, are dealt with in the B 2.12 IT cabling module or in the corresponding modules of layer 3, so that in this module primarily network-specific aspects (suitable segmentation, selection an appropriate network topology, formation of subnetworks, etc.).

Ethernet is the most widely used LAN technology and is considered the de facto LAN standard. Therefore, only Ethernet LAN s and the associated network components, such. As routers and switches considered. FDDI, token ring and token bus are considered obsolete and are barely used. When selecting active network components, the focus is on routers and switches. Shared LAN s using repeaters, hubs and bridges are no longer being operated today. Issues related to a WAN connection are also not covered in this module. Here, among other things, the block B 3.301 security gateway (firewall) referenced.

This module describes a guideline on how a local network can be analyzed and, based on this, designed and operated under safety aspects. In doing so, he takes the place of an institution which is responsible for the network operation and has the corresponding specialist knowledge.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional components have to be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT basic protection.

The modules B 4.2 Network and system management, B 2.12 IT cabling and B 3.302 routers and switches must be included in this.

Furthermore, the active network components must be set up securely, so that they can be accommodated, for example, in rooms for technical infrastructure (eg distribution areas), so that the measures from module B 2.6 room f Technischer technical infrastructure must be realized.

For the safe use of a local network, a series of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the analysis of the current network situation, from conception to operation. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.

Planning and conception

Securing a LAN begins in the planning phase. The first step is always the survey and subsequent analysis of the existing network situation. Based on the results of the analysis, the LAN can then be designed and implemented to meet the pre-determined network requirements. Particular attention should be paid to network segmentation when planning and designing a LAN. Only appropriate physical and possibly logical segmentation can prevent attacks on one subnet from affecting the functionality of other subnets.

In addition, a security policy must be established for the LAN, which describes regulations and instructions for safe operation and secure administration of the LAN (see M 2.576 Creating a security policy for the use of local networks).

implementation

Once all the components have been procured and the LAN is set up, the configuration of the different LAN components, and in particular the active network components (see M 4.82 Secure Configuration of Active Network Components), always complies with the security policy during installation and the established strategy.

business

Once the LAN has been commissioned and all LAN users have been adequately trained, on the one hand regular audits (see M 2.579 Regular audits of the local network) must ensure that all security settings made are still up-to-date and correct regular safety checks (see M 5.8 regular safety check of the network), whether these settings are effective. By using a network management software, the LAN can be administered centrally (see M 2.146 Secure operation of a network management system).

segregation

If LAN components are taken out of operation, the corresponding configuration settings must be reset to standard values ??and any information or access information stored on the LAN components must be deleted (M 2.580 Switching off of network components).

emergency preparedness

In order to be able to resume operation as quickly as possible in the event of an error, an emergency plan for the failure of the local network (see M 6.165 Creating an emergency plan for the failure of the local network) must be created. In particular, this also includes regular backup of the configuration data of active network components (see M 6.52 Regular backup of the configuration data of active network components).

The complete set of measures for the local area network is presented below.



