#B 4.3 Modem
## Description 
Via a modem is a data terminal, z. B. a PC connected to other data terminal equipment via the public telephone network to exchange information. A modem converts the digital signals from the data terminal into analog electrical signals that can be transmitted over the telephone network. In order for two IT systems to be able to communicate via modem, the corresponding communication software must be installed on the IT systems.

A distinction is made between external, internal and PCMCIA modems. An external modem is a stand-alone device with its own power supply, which is usually connected to the IT system via a serial interface. Plug-in cards with modem functionality that do not have their own power supply are called internal modems. A PCMCIA modem is a check card-sized plug-in card that is commonly used in laptops via a PCMCIA interface.

In this module, data transmission via ISDN is not considered, see the modules B 3.401 PBX and B 4.5 LAN connection of an IT system via ISDN.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For the use of a modem, a series of measures have to be implemented, starting with the planning over the procurement to the operation. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Even before using a modem, it should be checked whether the local conditions require the installation of overvoltage protection. It should also be determined who may use the modem under what circumstances.



###procurement
The measure M 2.59 Selection of a suitable modem in the procurement lists the essential criteria that must be taken into account when selecting a modem.



###implementation
Before commissioning, the modem must be configured appropriately, whereby it must be ensured that any existing passwords specified by the manufacturer are changed. The installation of a modem must not lead to an additional, unsecured access to a computer network, for example past a firewall.



###business
To ensure that the use of a modem does not create an additional security risk, secure administration and use must be ensured. This can only be achieved if the personnel in this area are trained accordingly. This also means that the employees are aware that viruses can be introduced via a modem connection and that they therefore have to take special care that all transmitted data are checked for viruses ,

To make it difficult to make external attacks via the modem connection, it should be considered whether the modem can be configured so that all connections must be made from the inside to the outside and that incoming connections are switched through using a callback procedure ,

In the following the measures for the range modem are presented.



