#B 4.7 VoIP
## Description 
For the transmission of the signaling information, for example during a call, special signaling protocols are used. The actual user data, such as voice or video, are transmitted using a media transport protocol. Both protocols are needed for establishing and maintaining a multimedia connection. For some technologies, only one protocol is needed for both signaling and media transport.

This module considers the security aspects of the terminals and switching units (middleware). The components described here are similar in terms of their functionality to the telecommunication systems described in module B 3.401 PBX.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

Since VoIP is operated via data networks, the module B 4.1 Local networks must be consulted for a safety consideration. Furthermore, the active network components in the data network must be taken into account. These are considered in block B 3.302 Router and Switches.

Instead of special appliances, so-called appliances, VoIP is very often operated on ordinary IT systems. For the operation of a middleware component, a corresponding network service is required on the IT system. Therefore, in this case, the module B 3.101 General Server must be taken into account.

A softphone is a client-side software that allows you to use a multimedia PC with a microphone as a telephony device. If a softphone is used, block B 3.201 General client is to be applied to the participating client. Furthermore, in both the middleware and the softphone, the module for the operating system that is used on the respective IT system must be taken into account, for example B 3.102 server under Unix or B 3.209 client under Windows XP.

For the use of VoIP, the following steps should be taken with regard to information security with regard to the terminals and the middleware:



###Planning the use of VoIP
The use of VoIP must be planned carefully (see M 2.372 Planning of the VoIP Use). In the scenario M 3.57 scenarios for the use of VoIP, possible applications of VoIP are presented. The choice of a signaling protocol plays an important role, because the different manufacturers of VoIP devices often support only one protocol. Since the signaling protocols are not compatible with each other, the decision for a signaling protocol influences the selection of the VoIP components. In M 5.133 Selection of a VoIP signaling protocol the most common protocols are outlined.

When telephoning over VoIP, the same problems can occur as with any other communication over IP. Many of the confidentiality and integrity attacks known from IP data networks can be directly adopted for VoIP. Protection against this includes, inter alia, encryption of the signaling or media transport information. Which contents should be protected in which networks is illustrated by the measure M 2.374 Volume of encryption of VoIP. The measures M 5.134 Secure signaling with VoIP and M 5.135 Secure media transport with SRTPimprove the functioning of the encryption for signaling and media transport information.

In parallel, the general security policy is to add a detailed guideline for the use of VoIP (see M 2.373 Creating a Security Policy for VoIP).



###procurement
The next step should be the procurement of the terminals and the VoIP middleware. Software solutions or appliances can be used. Based on the application scenarios, the requirements for the products to be procured must be formulated and, based on this, the selection of suitable products must be made. In the M 2.375 Appropriate selection of VoIP systems, recommendations for selection are to be found.



###implementation
In order to be prepared for the introduction or the switch to VoIP, the administrators should be sufficiently trained (see M 3.56 Training the administrators for the use of VoIP).

In addition to VoIP-specific changes, the existing IP data network often has to be adapted. In some cases, it makes sense to operate two data networks in parallel. The not always unproblematic separation of the VoIP voice network from the rest of the data network, which is described in M 2.376 separation of the data and VoIP network, can be done by logical or physical segmentation. In addition, access to the VoIP components should also be secured (see measure M 4.289 restriction of accessibility via VoIP). If there is no physical separation, regulations should be made for the prioritized forwarding of VoIP packets in order to prevent network overload. These are presented, inter alia, in the measure M 5.136 Services and network management at VoIP.

Especially for accessibility from a public network, precautions must be taken. Among other things, this concerns the adaptation of the transition between the public and private networks. For example, the translation of private IP addresses into public IP addresses via Network Address Translation (NAT) can be very complex (see measure M 5.137 Use of NAT for VoIP). However, the security gateway also has special requirements, which are described in M 4.290 Requirements for a Security Gateway for the Use of VoIP.



###business
After initial installation and a test operation phase, normal operation is started, see M 4.287 Secure Administration of VoIP Middleware and M 4.288 Secure Administration of VoIP Terminals. In order to be able to react to problems, important events must be logged and evaluated. Recommendations for this can be found in measure M 4.292 Logging in VoIP.

User training on the use of a telephone is often not economical and useful, even if typical office equipment is highly complex nowadays. Nevertheless, users should be informed about basic dangers, see measures M 3.12 Informing all employees about possible TC warning signs, symbols and symptoms and M 3.13 Raising employee awareness Possible TK-dangers.



###segregation
Very often in the memory of the VoIP components protected information is stored. When disposing of the components, the M 2.377 Safe startup procedure for VoIP components should be taken into account.



###emergency preparedness
Only a regular and comprehensive data backup ensures reliably that all stored data can be made available again in case of breakdowns, failures of the hardware or (intentional or unintentional) deletions can. The necessary measures are described in block B 1.4 Data backup concept. In addition, the data protection concept should be extended to include the data protection of the VoIP components, as described in measure M 6.101 Data backup for VoIP.

Some notes on specific aspects that should be considered in emergency preparedness for a VoIP server are described in the M 6.100 Implementation of an Emergency Plan for VoIP Outage.

The following measures have to be implemented for the use of VoIP:



