#B 4.6 WLAN
## Description 
Wireless LANs (WLANs) offer the opportunity to build wireless local area networks or extend existing wired networks with little effort. Wireless refers to wireless networks based on the group of standards specified as IEEE 802.11, specified by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).

Due to the simple installation, WLANs are also used for temporarily installed networks, such as eg. used at trade shows or smaller events. In addition, there is the possibility of offering network access via hotspots at public places such as airports or railway stations. This allows mobile users to connect to the Internet or their corporate network. Communication then generally takes place between a central access point, the access point, and the WLAN component of the mobile terminal (for example, via a WLAN USB stick or corresponding WLAN network card).

Most of the WLAN components currently available on the market are based on the IEEE 802.11g extension, which defines a transmission speed of up to 54 Mbit / s. In addition, there are some systems that only support the IEEE 802.11b extension released in 1999, which can achieve up to 11 Mbit / s. Both extensions spark in the license-free 2.4 GHz frequency range.

The security mechanisms are defined in the standard IEEE 802.11 and in the IEEE 802.11i extension. The original 802.11 standard defines Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) as the security mechanism, but WEP can no longer be considered sufficiently secure due to multiple vulnerabilities. For this reason, the manufacturer association WiFi Alliance developed the security mechanism Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA). In addition to an extension of the static keys, the so-called pre-shared keys, a dynamic key management by means of TKIP is introduced. These mechanisms were largely integrated into the official IEEE 802.11i extension released in 2004, where, as with WPA2, the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is used for encryption instead of RC4 in WEP and WPA. Furthermore, IEEE802.11i defines the Counter Mode withCBC-MAC Protocol (CCMP) as the implementation method for AES encryption and integrity checking. This method is sustainable in the long term, but requires in contrast to the TKIP variant new hardware. As an authentication method, the extension 802.11i defines the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) according to the standard IEEE 802.1X. Further technical information on the secure use of WLAN can be found, for example, in BSI's Technical Guideline Secure WLAN.

In this module, a systematic way to show how a concept for the use of WLANs within an institution is created and how its implementation and embedding can be ensured.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz

As part of the WLAN deployment, a number of measures are to be implemented, beginning with the conception, from procurement to operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Securing a WLAN starts already in the planning phase. Only through a well thought out strategy (see M 2.381 Definition of a strategy for the WLAN use) and the selection of the correct WLAN standard and the associated Kryptoverfahren (see M 2.383 selection of a suitable WLAN standard and M 2.384 selection suitably Crypto method for WLAN) is already laid the foundation for a secure WLAN. The measure M 3.58 Introduction to WLAN basic concept helps to find a way in the world of concepts for securing a WLAN.

All decisions made regarding security settings, selected WLAN standards, as well as the regulations for the use and administration of the WLAN, are to be written down in a WLAN security policy (see M 2.382 Creation of a security policy for WLAN use).



###procurement
When selecting the WLAN components, use measure M 2.385 Appropriate selection of WLAN components. WLANs are subject to rapid changes in standards, protocols and security mechanisms. Therefore, WLANs are often in the migration.

For such migration phases of individual WLAN components or entire WLAN areas, the measure M 2.386 Careful planning of necessary WLAN migration steps must be taken into account.



###implementation
Once all the components have been procured and it is about setting up the WLAN, it is not irrelevant where the access points are positioned (see M 1.63 Appropriate Installation of Access Points) or how the WLAN is connected to any existing wired infrastructure (see M 5.139 Secure connection of a WLAN to a LAN). However, the configuration of the various WLAN components, such as access points (see M 4.294 Secure configuration of access points) or WLAN clients (see M 4.295 Secure configuration of WLAN clients), is always complied with during installation   security policy and strategy.

In any case, the users and administrators of the WLAN must be adequately trained to minimize security incidents and to point out and sensitize them to possible dangers of improper use of the WLAN (see M 3.59 Training for secure WLAN deployment ).

If the WLAN is installed, configured or maintained by an external service provider, then the measure M 2.387 Installation, configuration and maintenance of a WLAN by third parties must be applied in any case.



###business
Once the WLAN has been put into operation and all WLAN users have been sufficiently trained, on the one hand regular audits (see M 4.298 regular audits of the WLAN components) ensure that all security settings are still up-to-date and through regular security checks (see M 5.141 regular security checks in WLANs), whether these settings also apply. In addition, safe operation of all WLAN components must always be ensured (see M 4.297 Secure operation of the WLAN components).

A key management for the cryptographic keys used in the WLAN to secure the communication is absolutely essential (see M 2.388 Suitable WLAN key management). A WLAN management solution can simplify the administration of the keys and the WLAN can be centrally administered (see M 4.296 Use of a suitable WLAN management solution).



###segregation
If WLAN components are taken out of service, then corresponding configuration settings, such as eg. Network name or SSID, to reset to default values ??and delete any information stored on the WLAN component to protect the network traffic via the WLAN or access information (see M 2.390 Decommissioning of WLAN components).



###emergency preparedness
If attacks on a WLAN have been detected, both the users and the administrators of the WLAN must know how to behave (see M 6.102 Behavior rules for WLAN security incidents). This results in an emergency plan, which steps are necessary and which persons are to be informed when a security incident occurs. In addition, it may be necessary to build a redundant WLAN to quickly replace important communication links. It is always important to ensure that the redundant WLAN meets the same security requirements as normal WLANs. For the redundant WLAN, therefore, all the measures of this module must also be used, since it must be considered as a separate WLAN. General notes on redundant communication connections are available in the M 6.75 Redundant Communication Connections.

In order for WLANs to be used safely, coupled clients must be securely configured and regularly maintained and administered. Suitable security recommendations for clients are described in the corresponding modules of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs.

In the following the measures for the use of WLANs are presented.



