#B 5.24 Web Services
## Description 
Web services in the sense of this module are all IT services that are provided by an operator for one or more consumers and are called via network-based interfaces, generally based on the HTTP protocol can.

In contrast to web applications (see module B 5.21 Web applications), the web service does not have a client component or visualizable web interface, but offers its functionality via a defined interface, which is provided by the Consumer of the web service (usually automated) is called. Web services can also be called up by other web services and together with them realize a more complex higher-level functionality. The compilation of various web services for the realization of a specific functionality is referred to as orchestration and can also take place dynamically based on standardized interface descriptions. Such complex architectures are referred to as service-oriented architectures (SOAs) and can extend across organizational boundaries.

Typically, either the XML-based SOAP or the object-oriented REST concept is used at the interfaces. For web services and their interfaces numerous standards are published, which are presented in the W-measure M 4.451 Current Web Service Standards in this module.

This building block always considers web services from the perspective of the operator. Institutions that act exclusively as consumers of web services do not model this building block, but use suitable building blocks such as B 1.11 outsourcing or B 1.17 cloud usage.

Although web applications and web services have similarities and require partially overlapping security measures, both components have been completely created in order to simplify the application of the IT-Grundschutz catalogs, so that these components can be used alternatively. depending on whether the application under consideration has a user interface (application of the Web applications module) or is called via a standardized interface (application of the Web service module). For complex applications, which are both a web application but also provide web services for other IT systems, both building blocks should be modeled together.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

In the context of the use of web services, a series of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the conception over the procurement to the operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below. The measures described here cover the above-mentioned dangers for normal protection requirements.



###Planning and conception
As with any other type of application, the same applies to web services that the course is set for safe implementation in the planning phase. In particular, this means clear responsibilities, as required in measure M 2.1 Definition of responsibilities and arrangements.

Functionality, architecture and implementation of the web services must be planned (M 4.458 Planning of the use of web services) and documented (M 2.486 Documentation of the architecture of web applications and web services). Depending on whether the web service is implemented by third-party solutions or by in-house development, measures M 2.80 must be taken into account to create a catalog of requirements for standard software or M 2.487 development and expansion of applications. If the web service removes an existing system or transfers data from it, the migration must also be included in the planning phase (M 2.530 Planning and preparation of migrations).

Another important aspect for the planning are security aspects of the web service. The measures provided for this should be recorded in writing (M 2.531 development of a security policy for web services) and include conceptual measures against SQL injections (M 2.363 protection against SQL injection) as well as measures for secure separation of data from different clients and users (M 4.457 Secure client separation for web applications and web services) and concepts for securing the interfaces (M 5.168 Secure connection of background systems to web applications and web services).



###procurement
The procurement of components and solutions for web services must be traceable and orderly and take into account the processes for the acceptance and approval of IT components (M 2.62 Software Acceptance and Release Procedures). If the operator also offers the web service to third parties for use, the aspects described in the measure M 2.533 Contractual aspects in the provision of web services must be taken into account in the contract design with the consumers.



###implementation
In particular, when web services are offered as a service to third parties, security-related questions between provider and consumer must be clarified and regulated (measure M 2.532 offering web services for third parties).

When implementing web services, on the one hand, measures for secure web development are to be observed, as they apply to web applications: From the validation of input and output data (M 4.393 Comprehensive input and output validation at Web applications and web services) through a robust session management (M 4.394 session management for web applications and web services) up to avoiding the disclosure of unnecessary information in the error handling and in the interface descriptions (M 4.395 Web application error handling and web services and M 4.400 restrictive release of security-related information in web applications and web services).

In addition, specific security problems of web services are to be addressed: This includes, on the one hand, the secure identification and authentication of web service users (M 4.456 authentication in the case of web services), including measures to prevent their use Unauthorized (M 4.454 protection against unauthorized use of web services). If the architecture of the web service provides for a secure token service (STS), you will find instructions for correct implementation in the measure M 4.453 Use of a Security Token Service (STS).

On the other hand, every time the web service is called up, it must be ensured that the called functionality is covered by the authorizations of the caller (M 4.454 Protection against unauthorized use of web services). The communication between the web service and the caller must be adequately protected (M 4.450 Securing communication in the case of web services), especially if it takes place via insecure networks.

If the interface of the web service is accessible to a large group of people or even public networks, appropriate measures should be taken to prevent attacks on the availability of the web service (M 4.405 Preventing the blockade resources (DoS) in web applications and web services). In order to increase the robustness of the Web service against attacks, the use of an XML gateway can also be considered (M 5.175 Use of an XML gateway).



###business
Questions regarding the secure operation of web services initially include the documentation and setting up of permissions for the consumer (even if the web service is automatically called by applications or other web services, see M 2.7 Assigning access permissions and M  2.31 Documentation of Authorized Users and Rights Profiles).

Users and administrators must be sufficiently familiar with the security measures that are relevant to them (M 3.5 Safety training).

The operation of the web service must be traceable by suitable measures for logging (M 4.397 Logging of security-relevant events of web applications and web services). Since logging usually also involves personal data, the requirements of data protection must be taken into account (M 2.110 data protection aspects during logging). In order to recognize security-relevant incidents in good time, a check of the log files must be ensured (M 2.64 control of the log files), if necessary by means of automated systems.

Modifications during operation must be carried out carefully (M 4.78 Careful implementation of configuration changes) and documented (M 2.34 documentation of the changes to an existing system). In particular, care must be taken to ensure that known security gaps in the Web service or one of the components, frameworks or libraries used by it are brought to the attention of the operator (M .2.35 Obtaining information about security gaps in the system) and as far as possible be corrected or otherwise handled appropriately (M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates).

The proper, secure and trouble-free operation of the web service must be ensured by means of suitable monitoring measures (M 4.452 monitoring of a web service). Regular vulnerability tests also serve to prevent attacks (M 5.150 performing penetration tests).



###emergency preparedness
A suitable data protection concept is also a central measure of emergency preparedness for Web services (M 6.32 Regular data backup). Further measures for the provision and management of emergencies are summarized in M 6.154 Emergency Management for Web Services.



