#B 5.14 Mobile data carriers
## Description 
This module considers the basic security features of mobile data carriers. Mobile data carriers can be used for

* the data exchange (see block B 5.2 Data medium exchange),
* the data transport between IT systems that are not networked with each other, or between different locations (see, for example, B 5.8 Teleworking),
* the archiving or storage of backup copies (backup), if other automated procedures are not appropriate (see blocks B 1.4 Backup Concept and B 1.12 Archiving),
* the storage of data that is too sensitive to store on workstations or servers,
* mobile data usage or data generation (eg MP3 player, digital camera, etc.).


There are a large number of different types of mobile data carriers, including floppy disks, removable disks (magnetic, magneto-optical), CD-ROMs, DVDs, magnetic tapes, cassettes, USB hard disks and also flash memory such as USB sticks. Due to this multitude of forms and fields of application, not all necessary safety considerations are always made.

Data carriers can be classified according to whether they are read-only, write-once or rewritable. They can also be subdivided according to further criteria, for example

* according to the type of data storage: analog or digital data carriers
* how they can be processed: without technical aids, such as As paper, or only with technical aids, such as. As microfilms or Tonb nder
* according to their design: interchangeable data carriers, external data memories or data carriers, which are integrated into other devices.


Interchangeable data carriers, sometimes referred to as removable media, are inserted into a drive. Examples of this are floppy disks, CD-ROMs, DVDs, magnetic tapes and cassettes. External data storage devices, such as USB sticks and external hard disks, can be connected directly to an IT system. Examples of data carriers integrated with other devices include the storage components in cell phones, MP3 players, and digital cameras.

In addition to the digital data carriers, information on paper, microfilm or other analog data carriers must also be taken into account when designing the security concept. This concerns in particular the printing, copying and scanning of documents as well as the use of fax services. Further information can be found in the blocks B 3.406 Printers, Copiers and Multifunction Devices and B 3.402 Fax Machine.

On the one hand, this module shows how the information stored on mobile data carriers can be used safely and how, on the other hand, how unauthorized disclosure of information about mobile data carriers should be prevented.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For the safe handling of mobile data carriers, a series of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the planning and conception to the procurement up to the emergency preparedness. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
A concept for the safe handling of mobile data media should be developed, which identifies risks and security measures for the various types of mobile data media (see M 2.401 Handling of mobile data media and data carriers) Crops).



###procurement
The selection of suitable data carriers must be agreed. M 4.169 Use of appropriate archive media should be taken into account when deciding which types of data carriers to use.



###business
Based on the respective safety requirements, safety instructions for all employees should be created on the basis of application scenarios (see M 3.60 Raising employee awareness about the safe handling of mobile data carriers and devices).

The drives and the interfaces of the IT systems should be protected in accordance with the security specifications (see M 4.4 Appropriate handling of drives for removable media and external data storage).



###segregation
If media is shared, it should be physically erased before it is re-used or discarded to prevent sensitive information from falling into the wrong hands (see M 4.32 Physically Erasing Media Before and After Use). ,



###emergency preparedness
Important information stored on mobile data media should still be stored elsewhere to prevent loss.

The following is a description of the measure of action for the field of mobile data carriers.



