#B 5.9 Novell eDirectory
## Description 
Novell eDirectory is a complex and versatile product which

* on the one hand can manage the management of integrated resources and their users cross-platform within a network of authorities or companies, and
* On the other hand, can also be used as an Internet information base with secure and standardized accessibility via suitable clients.


These two scenarios give rise to completely different threats to the use and operation of such a system. In particular, a combination of these deployment scenarios presents a challenge from an information security standpoint.

Accordingly, the security of the data stored in an eDirectory directory must always take into account the security of the underlying operating system. The latter, however, is not part of this module and therefore reference is made to the corresponding descriptions for the safe operation of the operating system used in the blocks of layer 3. Likewise a basic protection of the Novell eDirectory must be made as a directory service. In this case, block B 5.15 General directory service is to be used in addition to this block.

eDirectory emerged from the directory service Novell Directory Services (NDS), which was part of the Netware 4 operating system. This was at the time the outstanding innovation against the operating system Netware 3. Meanwhile, Novell positions these directory services as a standalone eDirectory product entirely independent of the Netware operating system. eDirectory can be installed and operated on a variety of operating systems. However, literature and sources continue to talk about Novell Directory Services and NDS is synonymous with eDirectory.

This module focuses on eDirectory version 8.6, the English version. The software supports the Netware, Windows NT / 2000, Linux and Sun Solaris platforms.

eDirectory can be used with special client software, such as the Novell Client for the Windows operating systems. These clients are integrated in the boot process of the respective computer and take over the authentication of the users against the directory service eDirectory. Also for Unix operating systems (Linux, Solaris) there is a similar possibility, which uses the mechanism of the Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM). The Novell Account Management Modules are used. Again, users are authenticated when they log in against the eDirectory directory service.

Another possibility is access via the LDAP interface. By using this standardized interface, the use of eDirectorys is also possible with other applications and systems. For use on the Internet, the LDAP protocol is generally the access method.



In addition, the eDirectory software offers a variety of tools, including the iMonitor, which provides monitoring and diagnostics capabilities via the directory service servers from a Web browser.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For the use of the eDirectory components, a specific security concept should already be created during the planning phase, which can be consistently integrated into the existing organization-wide security concept. The eDirectory system must be configured to implement existing security requirements and enforce additional eDirectory-specific requirements.

An eDirectory system is usually used in the environment with other systems that control access to the internal network from outside. In particular firewall systems and systems for remote maintenance should be mentioned, with which eDirectory has to work together. For this reason, when carrying out the eDirectory-specific measures, the corresponding measures from the respective components of additionally affected systems must always be taken into account. In addition to the building blocks from layer 3, the following building blocks must also be mentioned:

* B 3.301 Security gateway (firewall), if eDirectory systems are used in a firewall environment
* B 4.4 VPN if access to the eDirectory system is via a VPN
* B 5.7 Databases, general


For the safe implementation of an eDirectory system, a series of measures have to be implemented, from planning to installation and operation. The individual steps and the respective measures to be followed in this way are summarized below:

* After deciding to use eDirectory as the directory system, software and possibly additional hardware must be procured. Since eDirectory allows different possibilities of use (see above), the hardware that may have to be procured depends on the planned application scenarios. Therefore, the following measures must be taken: First, the use of the eDirectory system must be planned (see measures M 2.236 Planning the Use of Novell eDirectory and M 2.237 Planning of Partitioning and Replication in Novell eDirectory). In parallel A security policy must be developed (see measure M .2.238 Defining a security policy for Novell eDirectory) which, on the one hand, implements existing security policies in the context of eDirectory and at the same time defines eDirectory-specific supplements consistently. Before actual use In the eDirectory system in regular operation, users and administrators must be trained in how to handle the product. For administrators in particular, intensive use of the material is recommended, which should be based on a comprehensive knowledge of the security of the operating systems used (see M 3.29 Novell eDirectory administration training). Users should be provided with details of the available security mechanisms of the clients used (see M 3.30 Training on using Novell eDirectory client software).
* After the organizational and planning preparations have been carried out, the installation of the eDirectory system can take place. The following measures must be taken: The installation can only be considered completed once the eDirectory systems have been transferred to a safe state (see M 4.153 Secure installation of Novell eDirectory and M 4.154 Secure installation of Novell eDirectory client software). This ensures that only authorized administrators can access the eDirectory system in the subsequent configuration phase. After the raw installation, the eDirectory system is configured for the first time, see M 4.155 Secure configuration of Novell eDirectory, M 4.156 Secure Configuring the Novell eDirectory client software, M 4.157 Setting up access permissions to Novell eDirectory, and M 4.158 Setting up LDAP access to Novell eDirectory.
* After the configuration and a test operation phase, the normal operation is started. The following aspects should be considered from a safety point of view: An eDirectory system is usually subject to continuous changes. Accordingly, the security-relevant configuration parameters must be constantly adapted. Furthermore, the security of a distributed software architecture depends on the security of all subsystems. This applies in particular to the eDirectory client software. The measures relevant for safe operation are summarized in M 4.159 Safe Operation of Novell eDirectory and M 4.160 Monitoring Novell eDirectory, as well as the Communication Protection Measure (see M 5.97 Secure Communication with Novell eDirectory) In addition to measures to safeguard ongoing operations, emergency preparedness measures are also of central importance. Notes on this topic can be found in M 6.81 Creating Backups for Novell eDirectory.


The following is a description of the action box for the Novell eDirectory module:



