#B 5.18 DNS server
## Description 
This module looks at the basic security features of the Domain Name System (DNS) and the servers it requires. DNS is a network service for converting host names of IT systems into IP addresses. In the usual case, the corresponding IP address is searched for a host name (forward resolution). If, however, the IP address is known and the host name is searched, this is referred to as backward resolution. DNS can be compared to a phone book that dissolves names not in phone numbers but in IP addresses. This is a simplification for the users. These have to know instead of hard-to-remember numbers in the form of IP addresses only the host name of a computer in order to establish a connection to it. Which names belong to which IP addresses is managed in the domain name space. This is hierarchical and is provided by DNS servers. DNS servers manage the domain namespace on the Internet, but are also often used in the internal network of the institution. So-called resolvers (coordinate converters) are used on users' computers to send requests to DNS servers and return information about the domain namespace as a response. The term DNS server stands for the program used in the actual sense, but is usually also used as a synonym for the computer on which this program is operated.



The Internet is a public environment, and information networks operate IT systems that are to be accessible over the Internet, such as a web server or a mail server. In order to establish an Internet connection, DNS is required. In this case, the communication partner makes a corresponding DNS request to a DNS server. In this case, this DNS server must therefore be accessible from the public network and thus represents a publicly accessible IT system. Careful planning and proper implementation are important for smooth operation, because a functioning system can be used Name resolution is a prerequisite for a large number of applications. For this reason, the focus of the module is on the availability and integrity of DNS servers, as well as problems that may arise during DNS server operation.

This module describes the dangers and actions specific to a DNS server. The block is to be used if DNS servers are operated in an information network. To ensure the security of DNS servers, additional components must be implemented.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, fundamentally more building blocks have to be implemented for this building block, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

These are in particular the module B 3.101 General Server and, depending on the operating system used, the blocks B 3.102 Server under Unix, B 3.106 Server under Windows 2000 or B 3.108 Windows Server 2003.

Due to the fact that at least part of the operated DNS server of an information network communicates with the Internet, the blocks B 1.8 Handling of security precautions and block B 3.301 Security gateway (firewall) must be observed in order to ensure a secure connection ,

DNS servers manage all the name information of an information network and thus contain information about the entire network infrastructure. For this reason, a DNS server should be installed in a server room or at least in a secure server cabinet, see the corresponding blocks B 2.4 Server room and B 2.7 Protective cabinets. In the case of outsourcing, module B 1.11 Outsourcing must also be taken into account.

This module describes the dangers and actions specific to a DNS server.



###Planning and conception
Before starting with software selection and infrastructure planning, it should be checked if the desired domain name is still available. Since the responsible DNS servers must be specified during a registration, the measure M 2.298 Management of Internet domain names should be taken into account. With the deployment of DNSSEC in place, it is essential to create a concept for managing the cryptographic keys, as described in M 2.46 Appropriate Key Management. Planning determines which domain information has increased protection needs. In addition, it must be decided how high the performance capacity of a DNS server must be. On the one hand, this affects the IT system itself, especially the main memory, and on the other, the bandwidth of the network connection. It should also be planned in this context, how the DNS servers in the network infrastructure of the information network are integrated (M 2.451 planning of DNS use) and the access rights (M 2.8 assignment of access rights) are assigned. The result of the planning activities must be recorded in writing.



###procurement
There are different software products in the field of DNS servers. In order to make an appropriate choice, the potential products must be analyzed for the fulfillment of required functionality and security according to the planning document (M 2.452 Selection of a suitable DNS server product).



###implementation
Depending on the selected DNS server, the administrators must be trained (M 3.73 Training the administrators of a DNS server). The training ensures that the responsible administrators are familiar with the individual configuration options. On the basis of the training and proper planning, a secure configuration should be developed to ensure the availability of DNS and the integrity of the information provided: M 4.350 Secure basic configuration of a DNS server, M 4.198 Installation of an application in one chroot K fig, M 4.351 Securing zone transfers, M 4.352 Securing dynamic DNS updates.



###business
During operation, it is important to inform yourself about current security gaps in order to install any existing software updates or to implement other security measures, as described in the B 1.14 Patch and change management block. Furthermore, packet filter rules should minimize the communication of the DNS server with other DNS servers and clients (M 4.98 Minimize communication through packet filters). To ensure smooth operation and to detect any problems or anomalies, a DNS server should be constantly monitored (see M 4.354 Monitoring a DNS Server).

Manual changes to the configuration or to the DNS information should only be carried out after previous backup of the domain information in order to be able to restore it in the event of a fault, see M 4.78 Careful implementation of the configuration Changes.



###segregation
If DNS servers are put out of service, they should be disposed of in a regulated manner (see M 2.453 Separation of DNS servers).



###emergency preparedness
As part of emergency preparedness, emergency plans should be prepared for the relevant hazardous situations (M 6.139 Creating a DNS server emergency plan). As DNS provides a basic functionality for communication over networks, consideration should be given to having appropriate redundancy systems available.



