#B 5.16 Active Directory
## Description 
Active Directory is a directory service developed by Microsoft and first introduced with the Windows 2000 Server operating system. Based on the Active Directory capabilities of the Microsoft Windows 2000 Server operating system, additional key functions have been added to the Active Directory service of the Windows Server 2003 family.

Active Directory is mainly used in IT networks with predominantly Microsoft components. Active Directory stores information about objects within an IT network. Users or computers, for example, make it easier for users and administrators to provide, organize, use, and monitor this information. As an object-based directory service, Active Directory allows you to manage objects and their relationships with each other that make up the actual network environment. Active Directory provides central control and monitoring options for the respective network. The use of such a directory service is particularly useful where woz. B. the number of clients used in the network makes decentralized management difficult. Without a directory service, the reliability of locally made settings, such as. B. Implementation of the requirements of safety guidelines, due to the high personnel costs can no longer be guaranteed. Administrative tasks within the network such. B.Password changes, account creation and access rights can be performed more efficiently by using a directory service.

Demarcation of the module

This module looks at the threats and actions specific to Active Directory. General security recommendations for directory services can be found in module B 5.15 General directory service. The general measures described there are concretised and supplemented in the present module.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz. Above all, however, the module B 5.15 General directory service is to be used, which contains general recommendations for the general protection of directory services.

The prerequisite for adequate protection of the data processed in the Active Directory is the corresponding protection of the underlying server operating system. Securing the Microsoft Windows Server operating systems is not part of this building block, but is covered in the appropriate Layer 3 building blocks. Therefore, depending on the operating system selected, B 3.108 Windows Server 2003 or B 3.109 Windows Server 2008 also has to be considered for the secure operation of an Active Directory.

For the successful construction of an Active Directory, a number of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the conception through the installation to the operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
As a start, it is advisable to first consider the M 3.64 implementation in Active Directory, which provides an overview of the structure and terminology of an Active Directory.

Before the actual establishment of the Active Directory, the organizational structure of the institution must be determined in advance in order to derive from it a configuration that is as optimal as possible for the Active Directory. The measure M 2.229 planning of the Active Directory provides the procedure in the planning phase and the domain concept of Active Directory.

M 2.230 Active Directory administration planning is based on the basic structure for managing a domain and communicating the tasks and applications of each administrative role.

The measure M 2.231 Planning of group policies under Windows is concerned with the group policies for Windows operating systems, which can also be managed by means of Active Directory. In addition, the organizational structure and the rights adaptation of administrative user accounts in the M 2.411 separation of the management of services and data of an Active Directory is broken down. This also results in the recommendations from M 2.412 Protection of Authentication when using Active Directory, where adjustments for securing the directory service are presented.

In order to ensure the integrity of a productively deployed Active Directory environment by securing the DNS components, the M 2.413 Secure Use of DNS for Active Directory must be taken into account. In addition, M 2.414 Computer Virus Protection for Dom nen Controllers should be taken into account for the specifics of using antivirus software on domain controllers.



###procurement
After completion of the conceptual design work and the definition of the procurement criteria for a server, a suitable licensing model should be selected, depending on the number of servers to be procured and the selected operating system. If the choice falls on Windows Server 2003, the tools for the IT-Grundschutz offer a support (see Selection of suitable licensing methods for Windows XP / Server 2003 in Windows Server 2003 tools).



###implementation
In order to obtain a uniform security standard, the M 4.318 Implementation of secure management methods for Active Directory must be taken into account. Furthermore, the persons responsible for the administration of the directory service on the basis of M .3.27 Training for Active Directory administration are to be made familiar with the task areas allocated to them.

Due to their central importance for the entire network environment, sufficient physical protection must be ensured for the domain controllers of a company (see M 4.313 Provision of Secure Domain Controllers). In addition, in order to maintain network security standards and prevent tampering with the domain structure and its domain controllers, the M Richtlinien4.314 Domain and Dom  Policy Policies are secure NEN controller implement approved guidelines accordingly.

Under certain circumstances, a migration of already existing Windows directory services results at the same time. In particular, the M 4.317 Secure Migration of Windows Directory Services feature deals with directory service migration from existing Windows NT server systems.



###business
The measures M 4.315 Maintaining the operational security of Active Directory and M 4.316 Monitoring the Active Directory Infrastructure should ensure that the relevant systems of the information network are kept up to date. In addition, due to the relevance of the domain controllers, special requirements for the system settings, which are described in the measure M 4.138 configuration of Windows server as domain controllers, result.

In addition to the underlying operating system, the Active Directory itself has to be administered carefully (see M 4.315 Maintenance of the operational security of Active Directory). In order to be able to react promptly to emerging problems, the corresponding measure M 4.316 Monitoring of the Active Directory Infrastructure should be taken into account. This not only deals with the feedback when exceeding defined thresholds, but also with the logging of system changes.



###segregation
The aspects to be taken into account for the regulated disposal of a domain controller are described in measure M 2.410 Regulated commissioning of a directory service.



###emergency preparedness
Aspects of contingency planning for Active Directory are discussed in measure M 6.108 Data Protection for Dom nen Controller.

The following is a description of the measures for the Active Directory module:



