#B 5.22 Logging
## Description 
Logging in the operation of IT systems is understood to be the creation of manual or automated records from which the questions can be answered: who did what by what means, what prompted or accessed what? In addition, system statuses must be derived: Who had access rights from when to when? For a reliable IT operation, safety-critical events in the information network should be logged. The aim of the logging is to be able to understand significant changes to IT systems and applications in order to be able to understand their security. Logging is used in many information networks to quickly detect hardware and software problems as well as resource bottlenecks. But also security problems and attacks on the operated services can be traced on the basis of protocol data.

Logging can be done locally or centrally. In order to obtain an overall overview of an information network, a central logging server can be used, which brings together the different log data, analyzes it and monitors it. For example, analyzing and correlating data can detect attacks that occur on multiple systems.

Some typical application examples for central logging are:

* Collection of security gateway messages regarding blocked connection attempts
* Central starting point for warnings when mass storage quotas   are exceeded
* Archive for forensic investigations after an attack on IT systems became known


This module considers all specific hazards and actions that are relevant in an information network, regardless of the operating systems used for adequate logging and monitoring. The effort to create and implement such a process is not small. Therefore, this module should be implemented especially for larger information networks and should be centrally logged in an information network. For smaller and less complex information networks, the implementation of M 2.500 logging of IT systems may be sufficient.



## Countermeasures 
In order to ensure the security of the considered information network, in addition to this module, further modules must be implemented according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

The used logging services can already be integrated into an operating system as well as offered in standalone software components. In order to secure the logging service and the stored log data, the security of the underlying operating system must be ensured. However, this is not part of this module. For this, the operating system-specific building blocks of layer 3 must be implemented, above all B 3.101 General Server and B 3.201 General Client.

For a successful logging a number of measures are to be implemented, starting with the conception over the procurement to the operation of the components. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
In order to realize logging in an information network, it must be planned how it will be set up technically and organisationally (see M 2.499 Planning of logging and M 2.500 logging of IT systems). Also part of the planning is how a security concept can be created (see M 2.497 Creation of a security concept for the logging) and how the access rights to logging services and log data are assigned (see M 2.8 Assignment of access rights).

For central logging, it is necessary to consider how the central logging server can be integrated into the network infrastructure of the information network (see M 2.499 Logging Planning and M 3.90 General Basics for Central Logging).



###implementation
The responsible administrators must be trained in the appropriate procedures, in particular for the secure operation of a central logging server. This is described in M 3.89 Training for Administration of Logging. Furthermore, for an effective operation of an IT early warning, it is crucial that an alarm is triggered immediately when security precautions have occurred. Here it must be determined who, when and how will be notified and which message paths should be alerted (see M 6.151 Alerting concept for logging).



###business
The collected log information can be evaluated locally or at a central logging server (see M 4.430 Analysis of log data). In the case of a central analysis, the protocol information must be transmitted via the network to a central server. Here, the communication between the IT systems involved must be adequately secured (see M 5.171 Secure communication with a central logging server). Before the log data can be evaluated efficiently, these must first be prepared accordingly (see M 4.431 Selection and processing of relevant information for logging).



###segregation
If disks are discarded or deleted from logging servers, care must be taken to ensure that confidential and personal data are completely deleted. Further information on this can be found in measure M 2.496 Regulated commissioning of a logging server.



###emergency preparedness
As part of emergency preparedness, emergency plans should be prepared for the relevant risk situations (see M 6.96 Emergency Preparedness for a Server).

The following is a description of the action box for logging.



