#B 5.21 Web Applications
## Description 
Web applications provide functions and dynamic content over the Internet protocol HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) or HTTPS (HTTP over SSL or TLS, that is, protected by an encrypted connection). For this purpose, documents and user interfaces (eg operating elements and input masks) are generated on a server and delivered to corresponding client programs (web browsers).

Web applications are usually developed on the basis of frameworks. These provide a framework for frequently recurring tasks (eg for safety components). For a web application, several frameworks are often used for different areas (eg access to databases, formatting of the outputs) and components (eg authentication, session management). For this reason, security aspects in the selection of the frameworks and the software architecture must already be taken into account in the planning phase.

To run a web application, multiple IT system components are typically required. These usually include a web server for the delivery of the data, an application server for the operation of the application and additional background systems that are connected as data sources via different interfaces (eg database or directory service).

Web applications are used in both public IT networks (such as the Internet) and corporate networks (intranets) to provide data and applications. Web applications must implement security mechanisms that protect data and prevent misuse.

Typical security components or mechanisms of a web application are:

* AuthenticationFor accessing protected resources of the web application, users must identify themselves to the authentication component (eg by access data).
* Authorization Before accessing protected resources and functions, it must be checked whether the users have sufficient rights.
* Input and output data input and output must be checked and filtered to avoid processing of corrupted data (such as executable malicious code).
* Session ManagementBecause the Internet Protocol HTTP does not support mating related requests to a user, this mapping is done through the session management of the web application.
* Error Handling Incorrect errors must be handled in such a way that the data of the web application is protected even in the event of an error.
* Logging events must be recorded by the web application in such a way that actions taken and security-related incidents can also be traced at a later point in time.


Demarcation of the module

This module looks at the threats and actions specific to web applications. While web servers deliver the web pages (see also B 5.4 web server), web applications provide functions and prepare dynamic content for delivery by the web server. The module B 5.4 Web server also includes the editorial planning of the website as well as the emergency management, which is therefore not dealt with again in this module. Because web services mimic business logic, much like web applications, many of the threats and actions of web applications can also be transferred to the web services logic components.

In traditional web applications, functionality is offered within this application. In contrast, in SOAP-based Web services (Simple Object Access Protocol), these are offered as loosely coupled, independent, interchangeable services via standardized interfaces by a service provider. Unlike Web applications, web services typically do not render results for a browser, but provide them in a structured, machine-readable form (eg, SOAP messages) for further automated processing. This data is processed by different components of the web service (eg by a parser or by encryption and decryption components). The security-relevant aspects in the realization of a service-oriented architecture (SOA) are not considered in this module.



## Countermeasures 
In order to secure web applications, additional blocks must be implemented in addition to this block, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

Running a web application requires the use of additional components. Therefore, the module B 3.101 General Server and depending on the operating system used, for example, module B 3.102 Server under Unix or B 3.108 Windows Server 2003 must be taken into account. In addition, a web server (see B 5.4 web server) is required for the operation of a web application.

Functionality or data is usually outsourced in web applications in background systems (eg database and identity memory). For this reason, depending on the background systems used, additional components such as B 5.7 databases and B 5.15 general directory service (or B 5.16 Active Directory) must be taken into account.

If the web application processes personal data or evaluates user data (eg retrieval statistics, user profiles), block B 1.5 Data protection must also be taken into account.

If the web application is operated or developed by external service providers, the module B 1.11 Outsourcing is also to be considered.

A number of measures need to be taken for a secure web application. The phases to be passed and the measures to be taken into account in the respective phases are listed below.



###Planning and conception
When planning a web application, it usually has to be decided whether the requirements for the web application can be covered by standard products or if an in-house development is necessary. If a web application is implemented on the basis of standard software, customary adjustments are required that go beyond mere configuration changes and often include development work as well. Therefore, even web applications based on standard software often have to meet the requirements for the development and expansion of web applications (see M 2.487 Application development and enhancement).

Security aspects must already be considered in the design phase of a web application in order to protect the data to be processed (see M 5.169 System architecture of a web application). Here, the integration of the background systems (eg database) and their secure connection must be included (see M 5.168 Secure connection of background systems to web applications and web services).

If personal data are processed, recorded or evaluated by web applications (eg user behavior), the legal framework conditions must be taken into account when planning technical solutions (see M 2.110 Data protection aspects in logging and M 2.488 web-based data). Tracking).



###procurement
If a web application with available standard software is to be realized, a suitable product must be selected (see M 2.80 Creation of a requirement catalog for standard software).



###implementation
Before adopting a web application into active operation, the safety functions must be configured or developed. The components to be converted must protect the web application against known threats and attack techniques (see, for example, M 2.363 Protection against SQL Injection).

In addition, context-sensitive validation and filtering of the data (see M 4.392 Authentication for web applications) and the protection of user sessions through session management (see M 4.394 Session Management in Web Applications and Web Services) are essential security components a web application.



###business
After a web application has passed through the acceptance and release procedure successfully and has been configured ready for operation, normal operation can be started.

In particular, when using the web application via public networks (eg Internet) there is a risk that exploited vulnerabilities will be exploited. Therefore, processes have to be defined in order to be able to permanently maintain the desired security level of the web application (see M 2.35 Obtaining information about security vulnerabilities of the system and M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates).

It must be ensured that data transmitted by web applications does not contain any security-relevant information that gives an attacker instructions for bypassing security mechanisms (see M .4.400 Restricting the Releasing of Security-Relevant Information in Web Applications and Web Services).

For the high protection requirement, penetration tests have to be carried out on the web application in order to check the security level of the web application and quickly eliminate possible weak points (M 5.150 carrying out penetration tests).

Below are the measures for web applications. A repetition of measures of other components is omitted here for reasons of redundancy.



