#B 5.15 General directory service
## Description 
A directory service provides information on any objects in a defined manner on a computer network. With an object related attributes can be stored, for example to a user ID name and first name of the user, the personnel number and the computer name. These data can then be used equally by different applications. However, the directory service and its data are managed only once from a central location.

Some typical uses of directory services are:

* Management of address books, eg. B.f r phone numbers, e-mail addresses, certificates for electronic signatures
* Resource management, eg. B.f r computers, printers, scanners and other peripheral devices
* User management, eg. B. For managing user accounts and user permissions
* Authentication, eg. B. To log on to operating systems or applications


Directory services are optimized for read access because data is typically retrieved from the directory service, whereas write accesses, such as creating, modifying or deleting entries, are less frequently needed.

The data in a directory service is usually logically object-based in a tree structure. The structure can map political, geographical or organizational relationships of the data in the directory. The objects are hierarchically stored in, possibly distributed, directories and databases. Starting from a root object, the objects branch into parent-child relationships right down to the leaves. While objects that contain objects themselves are called container objects, the objects at the end of the tree are called leaf objects.

Directory Services software is offered by many manufacturers. Examples include Active Directory from Microsoft (see B 5.16 Active Directory) and Novell eDirectory (see B 5.9 Novell eDirectory). Other directory services are based on the freely available OpenLDAP (they B 5.20 OpenLDAP), which is used in many Unix-based systems, but is also used by Mac OS X, for example.

This module considers general security aspects of directory services, regardless of the product used. For product-specific security aspects, there are further modules in the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs, which are also to be applied to the respective directory service.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

Directory services can already be integrated into an operating system, such as Active Directory in Windows Server as of Windows 2000, as well as in standalone software components, such as OpenLDAP. Accordingly, the security of the data stored in a directory must always also take into account the security of the underlying operating system. The latter is not part of this module. For this reason, reference is made to the corresponding descriptions for safe operation of the operating system used in the blocks of layer 3.

Likewise, when using a directory service, the treatment of cross-sectional aspects that are to be found in the relevant building blocks of layer 1 is also required. The security requirements of the directory service should therefore be included in the creation of cross-border concepts (see, for example, B 1.6 Protection against malware).

In the context of the secure implementation of a directory service, a series of measures has to be implemented, beginning with the conception from the procurement to the operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
As a first step, it is recommended to consider first the measure M 3.61 Introduction to Directory Service Basics, which contains an overview of the structure and terminology of a directory service.

In order to decide which type of directory service can be used in the institution, a requirement analysis must first be carried out. On this basis, the use of the directory service must then be planned (see measures M 2.403 Planning the use of directory services and M 2.409 Planning of partitioning and replication in the directory service). The distribution of administrative tasks is essential (see measure M 2.407 Planning of the administration of directory services).

In this context, a security policy and policy should be developed (see M 2.404 Development of a security policy for directory services and M 2.405 Creation of a security policy for the use of directory services,). These must fit into the context of existing security concepts and policies, while defining specific additions to directory services.

If a directory service has to be migrated due to restructuring or updates in the information network, extensive planning and conceptual work is also required (see measure M 2.408 Scheduling migration of directory services).



###procurement
After the decision to use a directory service, the necessary software and possibly additionally needed hardware must be procured. Since a directory service allows various possible uses, the selection and procurement (see measure M 2.406 Suitable selection of components for directory services) depends on the planned deployment scenarios.



###implementation
After the organizational and planning preparations have been made and the decision on the procurement of the directory service has been made, the directory service can be installed. The following measures are to be taken:

The installation is used to set up a directory service for the first time (see M 4.308 Secure Installation of Directory Services) and is not considered complete until the directory service has been transferred to a safe state. This ensures that only authorized administrators can access the directory service in the subsequent configuration phase.

After installation, the directory service is configured for the first time (see measures M 4.307 Secure configuration of directory services, M 4.309 Setting up access permissions to directory services, and M 4.310 Setting up LDAP access to directory services).

The users and administrators of the directory service are to be sufficiently trained to minimize security incidents and to point out and sensitize them to possible dangers of improper use of the directory service (see measures M 3.62 Directory Services Administration and M  3.63 Training users for authentication using directory services).



###business
After the configuration and a test operation phase, the normal operation is started. The following aspects should be considered from a safety point of view:

Directory services are naturally subject to continuous change. Accordingly, the safety-relevant configuration parameters must be constantly adapted (see measure M 4.78 Careful implementation of configuration changes). The aspects relevant for safe operation can be found in M 4.311 Secure operation of directory services and especially for securing communications in M 5.147 Securing communication with directory services.

In order to be able to understand the security status of a directory service, it is advisable to monitor it continuously (see M 4.312 Monitoring directory services).



###segregation
If it is decided not to continue to operate a directory service, in particular the remaining data and rights are to be deleted safely. However, even if only parts of a directory service are discarded, some points must be noted that explain M 2.410 Regulated Decommissioning of a directory service.



###emergency preparedness
In addition to measures to safeguard the directory service during ongoing operations, the measures for emergency preparedness also have a relevant significance. Information on this topic can be found in M 6.106 Creation of a contingency plan for the failure of a directory service and in M 6.107 Creation of backups for directory services.

The following is a description of the measures for the directory service module:



