#B 5.13 SAP System
## Description 
SAP systems are used in companies and public authorities to automate and technically support internal and external corporate or authority and business processes (Enterprise Resource Planning, ERP). As a result, an SAP system typically processes confidential data so that appropriate protection of all system components and data is ensured and the level of protection must be adapted to the risk situation. In addition, integrity and availability also play an important role.

SAP offers an extensive range of systems, components and functions, so that the term SAP system can not clearly identify a particular installation or group of components. Within the scope of this module, it is not possible to discuss all available SAP products, so the presentation is limited to a typical core installation that is frequently encountered in practice.

An example of a typical SAP system is a mySAP ERP system, formerly called SAP R / 3, with the Enterprise Core Components Human Capital Management (HCM), Finance & Controlling (FI / CO), Material Management (MM) , Sales & Distribution (SD), Logistics (PP), Project Management (PS) and Quality Management (QM). The core component is the so-called SAP NetWeaver ApplicationServer (formerly SAP Web Application Server). Further components of the current NetWeaver platform (currently NetWeaver 04) are SAP XI as a data integration platform between individual SAP systems and also between SAP and non-SAP systems as well as the SAP Enterprise Portal as an integration platform for applications and users. These two components are also executed on the SAP NetWeaver ApplicationServer.

A brief overview of SAP systems and important technical terms from the SAP environment can be found in the M 3.53 Introduction to SAP Systems.

The hazards and measures of this module are mainly based on the SAP NetWeaver ApplicationServer, the primary technical component of the NetWeaver platform. Since this basic component already exists in several versions and these differ in the offered functions, the presentation of version-related differences is deliberately omitted. This ensures that the module can be used over a longer period of time and can also be used for existing SAP R / 3 systems. The focus of the measures and dangers is the basic protection of an SAP system at the level of so-called basic administration. The application- or module-related (eg HCM, FI) protection is not part of this module. However, since many applications and modules use the security mechanisms of the basic component, the specified measures can also be applied here with corresponding adjustments.

The aim of the module is not to reproduce the existing, extensive documentation from SAP, but to present recommended safety-relevant procedures and noteworthy features. Otherwise you can refer to the existing SAP documentation, which contains detailed technical illustrations. The relevant SAP documentation is centrally compiled in M 2.346 using the SAP documentation. IT security officers and administrators not only help with the module when planning the SAP deployment, but also mention the most important technical aspects that must also be considered in terms of information security.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

A number of measures have to be implemented for the successful development of an SAP system, starting with the strategic decision, through planning, design and installation to operation. It should not be forgotten that a system is properly sorted out when the end of the operating phase is reached.

In parallel with the operational phase, emergency preparedness must ensure that operation can be maintained even in an emergency. Information security management and auditing ensure that the rules are adhered to.

The steps to be taken and the actions to be followed in each phase are listed below:



###Planning and conception phase
Once the decision has been made for an SAP system, the use of the SAP system must be planned and designed. The aspects to be taken into consideration are summarized in measure M 2.341 Planning of the SAP deployment. It is important here how the authorizations are planned for the users of an SAP system. The relevant topics are contained in measure M 2.342 Planning of SAP authorizations. It should be remembered that the security of an SAP system can already be decisively influenced in the planning and design phase by considering security-relevant aspects. Measures for the SAP-specific user training can be found in M 3.52 Training on SAP Systems, since sufficient knowledge of users and administrators of SAP systems influences the security.

Special attention should be given to safety planning in scenarios where SAP systems are at particular risk. These can be typical Internet scenarios, so that the recommendations of measure M 2.344 Secure operation of SAP systems must be implemented on the Internet. However, these can also be intranet scenarios, for example if an SAP system is to be addressed by a company or company portal. Here then the recommendations of the measure M 2.343 Securing an SAP system in the portal scenario relevance. A common scenario associated with specific threats is the outsourcing of an SAP system, because this is where configuration and administration takes place by persons outside the company or outside the company. For this case you will find hints and recommendations in the measure M 2.345 Outsourcing of an SAP system.



###implementation phase
After the organizational and planning preparatory work has been completed, you can install an SAP system. In this case, the measure M 4.256 Secure installation of SAP systems must be observed.

The mere installation of an SAP system represents only a minor part of the work to be done in the implementation phase. The overwhelming amount of work is required after installation due to the initial configuration of the SAP system. The initial configuration defines and defines the basic security for the startup and the framework conditions for the future security of the SAP system. Therefore, the following aspects should be considered in the implementation phase:

Initial configuration is required for both the ABAP stack and the Java stack. In particular, situations should be avoided in which one of the two stacks remains unconfigured because it is not used. The corresponding recommendations can be found in the following measures:

* M 4.258 Secure configuration of the SAP ABAP stack
* M 4.266 Secure configuration of the SAP Java stack


The core of every SAP system is the database and the data tables it contains. The database stores not only the business data of a public agency or company, but also the internal functions and administration information of the SAP system. Security problems in the area of ??the database therefore always immediately affect the overall security of the SAP system. The database-related measures are summarized in:

* M 4.269 Secure configuration of the SAP system database


SAP systems are distributed and therefore communicate with each other or with other external client or server systems via different interfaces. Securing communication is therefore an important task. In general, an SAP system can use many different communication channels, which also depend on the installed applications and modules. However, as a rule, a few basic communication mechanisms and interfaces are used. The relevant entry-level procedure is:

* M 5.125 Securing Communication to and from SAP Systems


An SAP system must be adapted to the local functional requirements of a company or a company. This is done by the so-called customizing (adaptation to the customer). The relevant measure in this context is:

* M 2.348 Security when customizing SAP systems




###business
After the initial installation and a test operation phase, normal operation is started. From a security point of view, the following aspects should be considered:

In order for security advisories to be noticed, a corresponding monitoring of the SAP system must take place. Hints can be found in the measures:

* M 4.270 SAP logging
* M 2.347 Regular security checks for SAP systems


Newer versions of SAP software provide the ability to attach a computer virus protection program so that, for example, documents and data sent to the SAP system can be virus-checked. Hints can be found in:

* M 4.271 Antivirus protection for SAP systems


Since an SAP system is always subject to changes that are usually derived from changed requirements or application scenarios, it must be ensured that the desired level of security is maintained (see M 2.221 Change Management or B 1.14 Patch Management). and change management). This is especially true for in-house developments. The relevant measures in this context are:

* M 2.349 Software development security for SAP systems


New code or other changeable components must be introduced into the system. For this purpose, the SAP transport system is available for ABAP-related changes. For the software distribution in the area of ??the Java stack, however, a different mechanism is used. In both cases, a safeguard must be provided so that the mechanisms can not be abused. The relevant measures are:

* M 4.272 Secure use of the SAP transport system
* M 4.273 Secure use of SAP Java stack software distribution




###segregation
Recommendations for uninstalling SAP systems, for example after completion of normal operation, can be found in the M 2.350 Disposal of SAP Systems measure.



###emergency preparedness
Recommendations for emergency preparedness for SAP systems can be found in the M 6.97 Emergency preparedness for SAP systems measure.

All measures for SAP systems are presented below:



