#G 0.36 identity theft
In identity theft, an attacker fakes a false identity, so he uses information about another person to appear on their behalf. For this purpose, data such as date of birth, address, credit card or bank account numbers are used, for example, to register at a foreign cost with an Internet service provider or to enrich themselves in other ways. Identity theft often leads directly or indirectly to damage caused by the call, but also causes a great deal of time to discover the causes and avert negative consequences for those affected. Some forms of identity fraud are also called masquerade.

Identity theft often occurs where the identity check is too cautious, especially if expensive services are based on it.

A person who has been  concerned about the identity of his communication partner can easily be made to reveal sensitive information.



## Examples 
* For various e-mail providers and auction platforms on the Internet, it was enough to register at first to come up with a fancy name and submit it with a suitable address from the phone book. Initially, attackers could also log on under identifiable names, such as cartoon characters. As soon as plausibility checks were introduced, names, addresses and account numbers of real persons were used for this purpose. The persons concerned did not learn about this until the first payment requests arrived.
* The sender addresses of e-mails are easy to delete. It happens again and again that users are fooled in this way that an e-mail comes from a trusted communication partner. Similar attacks are possible by manipulating caller ID on voice connections or by manipulating the sender's ID on fax connections.
* An attacker can use a masquerade to attempt to connect to an already existing connection without having to authenticate himself, since this step has already been taken by the originating communication participants.




