#G 0.1 Fire
Fire can cause severe harm to people, buildings and their furnishings. In addition to direct damage caused by fire, consequential damage can be identified which, in particular for information technology, can achieve a catastrophic effect in terms of damage. L schwassersch den occur, for example, not only at the point of fire. They can also arise in lower building parts. The incineration of PVC produces chlorine gases, which form hydrochloric acid together with humidity and water. Distributing the hydrochloric acid fumes over the air conditioner can cause damage to sensitive electronic equipment located in a part of the building far from the fire. But normal fire smoke can also have a damaging effect on the IT equipment in this way.

A fire is not only caused by the careless handling of fire (eg by uncontrolled open flames, welding and soldering work), but also by improper use of electrical equipment (eg unattended fire) Coffee machine, overload of multiple sockets). Technical defects on electrical devices can also lead to a fire.

The spread of a fire can, among other things, be promoted by:

* Stopping fire doors by wedges,
* improper storage of flammable materials (eg waste paper),
* Failure to comply with the relevant standards and regulations for fire prevention,
* missing fire alarm systems (eg smoke detectors),
* missing or not ready-to-use manual fire extinguishers or automatic fire extinguishing devices (eg gas extinguishing systems),
* Insufficient preventive fire protection (eg lack of fire barriers on cable trays or use of unsuitable insulating materials for heat and sound insulation).




## Examples 
* At the beginning of the 1990s, a large center in the Frankfurt area suffered catastrophic fire damage, which resulted in a complete breakdown.
* Again and again it happens that electrical small parts, such as. Coffee machines or table lamps, improperly installed or installed and thereby cause trouble.




