#G 0.18 Misplanned planning or missing adjustment
If organizational processes that directly or indirectly serve information processing are not properly designed, this can lead to security problems. Although every single process step is carried out correctly, it often comes to shame, because processes are defined incorrectly.

Another potential cause for security issues is dependencies with other processes that themselves have no obvious relation to information processing. Such dependencies can easily be overlooked during planning and thus cause impairments during operation.

Security issues may also arise because tasks, roles, or responsibilities are not clearly assigned. Among other things, it can happen that processes are delayed, safety measures are neglected or regulations are violated.

There is also a risk if devices, products, processes or other means of realizing information processing are not used properly. Selecting an inappropriate product or vulnerabilities, for example in the application architecture or in the network design, can lead to security issues.



## Examples 
* Failure to tune maintenance or repair processes to technical requirements can result in unacceptable downtime.
* There can be an increased risk of attacks on one's own IT systems if security-related requirements in the procurement of information technology are not taken into account.
* If needed consumables are not delivered on time, the IT procedures involved may stall.
* Weaknesses can arise if unsuitable transmission protocols are selected during the planning of an IT procedure.




