#G 0.45 data loss
A data loss is an event that causes a database to become unusable as required (loss of availability). A common form of data loss is data being accidentally or illegally erased, for example, by misuse, malfunction, power outage, contamination or malware.

However, data loss can also be caused by damage, loss, or theft of equipment or data carriers. This risk is often particularly high for mobile devices and mobile data carriers.

It should also be noted that many mobile IT systems are not always online. The data stored on these systems is therefore not always up-to-date. When data records are synchronized between mobile IT systems and stationary IT systems, data loss may occur due to carelessness or malfunction.

Examples:

* The PDA fills the shirt pocket and smashes on the tiles, a mobile phone is retrieved from the dog instead of the newspaper, unfortunately with consequences. Such and similar events are the causes of many total losses of mobile device data.
* There are malicious programs that deliberately delete data on infected IT systems. In some cases, the deletion function is not performed immediately upon infection, but only when a defined event occurs, for example when the system clock reaches a certain date.
* Many Internet services can be used to store information online. If the password is forgotten and is not stored, it may happen that the stored information can no longer be accessed unless the service provider offers a suitable method for resetting the password.
* Hard drives and other mass storage media have a limited lifespan. If no suitable redundancy measures have been taken, technical defects can lead to data losses.


Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



