#G 0.43 Importing messages
Attackers use this form of attack to send specially prepared messages to systems or individuals with the goal of gaining or taking advantage of themselves for the victim. For example, to construct the messages properly, the attackers use interface descriptions, protocol specifications, or records of past communication behavior.

There are two special cases of message loading that are important in practice:

* During a replay attack (re-loading of messages), attackers record relevant messages and play back this information at a later time (almost) unchanged. It may also be sufficient to use only parts of a message, such as a password, to invade an IT system without authorization.


* In a man-in-the-middle attack, the attacker unnoticed takes on a mediation position in the communication between different participants. As a rule, he pretends to the sender of a message that he is the actual recipient, and pretends to the recipient that he is the actual sender. If this succeeds, the attacker can thereby receive messages that are not intended for him, and evaluate them before forwarding them to the actual recipient and manipulate them in a targeted manner.


Encrypting the communication offers no protection against man-in-the-middle attacks if there is no secure authentication of the communication partners.



## Examples 
* An attacker records the authentication data (such as user ID and password) during a user's login process and uses that information to gain access to a system. In the case of purely static authentication protocols, an encrypted transmitted password can also be used to access a third-party system without authorization.
* To cause financial harm to the employer (company or agency), an employee gives up an approved order multiple times.




