#G 0.17 Loss of devices, data carriers or documents
There are a number of causes that could lead to the loss of devices, data carriers and documents. This affects availability immediately, but confidential information can also be confused if the data carriers are not completely encrypted. Recovering equipment or data creates costs, but when it re-emerges, information may be disclosed or unwanted programs may have been leaked.

Particularly mobile terminals and mobile data carriers can easily be lost. On small memory cards today huge amounts of data can be stored. However, it often happens that documents in paper form are accidentally left behind, for example in restaurants or transport.

Examples:

* An employee uses the tram to go to work to view some documents. When she gets off hectic at the destination stop, she leaves the papers inadvertently lying on her neighbor's place. Although the documents are not confidential, several signatures of senior executives have to be obtained again as a result.
* At a major event, an employee accidentally and unnoticedly drops a memory card with confidential calculations onto the floor while searching through his briefcase. The Finder scans the content on his laptop and sells the information to the competition.
* A manufacturer sends CDs with software updates for troubleshooting by mail to its customers. Some of these CDs are lost in transit without the sender or recipient being informed. As a result, the affected customers malfunction the software.


Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



