#G 0.27 lack of resources
If the resources available in an area are insufficient, there may be bottlenecks in the supply of these resources, including congestion and failures. Depending on the nature of the resources involved, a small event whose occurrence was also foreseeable can ultimately affect a large number of business processes. Resource shortages can occur in IT operations and communication links, but also in other areas of an institution. If insufficient personal, time and financial resources are made available for certain tasks, this can have many negative effects. It can happen, for example, that the roles required in projects are not filled with suitable persons. If resources such as hardware or software are no longer sufficient to meet the requirements, specialized tasks may not be successfully processed.

Often personnel, time, financial, technical and other shortcomings in regular operation can still be compensated for a limited period of time. Under high time pressure, however, they become all the clearer, for example in emergency situations.

Resources can also be deliberately overloaded if someone generates an intensive demand for a resource and thereby provokes an intensive and lasting disruption of the resource, see also G0.40 Denial of Service.



## Examples 
* Overloaded electric cables heat up, which can lead to smoldering fire if installed in an unfavorable manner.
* Running new applications on the network at a higher bandwidth than planned at design time can result in a loss of network availability if the network infrastructure can not be scaled sufficiently.
* If the administrators only have sporadic control over the log files of their IT because of overloading, attacks may not be detected promptly.
* Web servers can be overloaded by a high volume of concurrent incoming requests, making regulated access to data almost impossible.
* If a company is in bankruptcy proceedings, it can happen that there is no money for urgently needed replacement parts or that important service providers can not be paid.




