#G 0.11 Failure or disruption of service providers
Hardly any institution still works today without service providers such as suppliers or outsourcing providers. If organizational units are dependent on service providers, the completion of tasks may be adversely affected by failures of external services. The partial or complete failure of an outsourcing service provider or a supplier can have a significant impact on business continuity, especially in critical business processes. There are various causes for such cases, such as bankruptcy, unilateral termination of the contract by the service provider or supplier, operational problems, for example, due to natural forces or staff shortages. Problems can also arise if the services provided by the service provider do not meet the quality requirements of the client.

It should also be noted that service providers also often rely on subcontractors to provide their services to the client. Faults, quality defects and failures on the part of the subcontractors may indirectly lead to impairments at the client.

Due to the failure of IT systems at the service provider or the communication links to the latter, business processes at the client may be impaired.

Any necessary retraction of outsourced processes can be very difficult, for example because the outsourced processes are not sufficiently documented or because the previous service provider does not support the recovery.



## Examples 
* A company has installed its servers in a data center of an external service provider. After a fire in this data center, the company's finance department was no longer able to act. There were significant financial losses for the company.
* The just-in-time production of a company depended on the supply of equipment from external service providers. After a truck failed due to a defect at the service provider, the delivery of urgently needed parts was drastically delayed. As a result, a number of customers could not be supplied on time.
* A banking institution handled all the money transports with a value-transporting company. The value-transport company surprisingly filed for bankruptcy. The agreement and tour planning with a new value transporter took several days. As a result, there were significant problems and delays in the supply and disposal of bank branches.




