#G 0.14 Spying out information / espionage
Espionage refers to attacks that aim to collect, analyze and process information about companies, people, products or other target objects. The processed information can then be used, for example, to give a competitive advantage to another company, to blackmail people or to be able to recreate a product.

In addition to a multitude of technically complex attacks, there are often much simpler methods of obtaining valuable information, for example, by bringing together information from several publicly available sources that are individually invisible, but in other contexts can be compromising. Since confidential data are often not sufficiently protected, they can often be spied out optically, acoustically or electronically.



## Examples 
* Many IT systems are protected against unauthorized use by means of identification and authentication mechanisms, eg. in the form of user ID and password check. However, if the password is sent unencrypted over the line, an attacker may be able to read it.
* In order to be able to withdraw money at a cash dispenser, the correct PIN for the used ec or credit card must be entered. Unfortunately, the privacy of these devices is often insufficient, so that an attacker can easily look over the customer's shoulder while entering the PIN. If the attacker steals the card afterwards, he can use it to change the account.
* To gain access to or otherwise manipulate access to a PC, an attacker may send the user a Trojan horse, which he has attached as an allegedly useful e-mail program. In addition to direct damage, Trojan horse information can be found not only on the individual computer, but also on the local network. In particular, many Trojan horses pursue the goal of spying passwords or other credentials.
* In many offices the workplaces are not acoustically well shielded from each other. This may allow colleagues as well as visitors to hear conversations and gain knowledge of information that is not intended for them or even confidential.




