#G 0.15 Abhren
Listening refers to targeted attacks on communication links, calls, sources of noise of all kinds, or IT systems for information gathering. This begins with the unnoticed, secret eavesdropping of a conversation and extends to highly sophisticated complex attacks to intercept signals sent over radio or lines, eg. with the help of antennas or sensors.

Not only because of the low detection risk, the monitoring of lines or radio links is a not insignificant threat to information security. Basically, there are no secure cables. Only the effort required to listen is different between the cables. Whether a line is actually peeled off can only be determined with high metrological effort.

The unprotected transmission of authentication data with plaintext protocols such as HTTP, FTP or Telnet is particularly critical because they can be easily analyzed automatically thanks to the clear structuring of the data.

The decision to have information somewhere is essentially determined by the question of whether the information is worth the technical or financial effort and the risk of discovery. The answer to this question depends very much on the individual possibilities and interests of the attacker.

Examples:

* In the case of telephone calls, it is not only interesting for an attacker to listen to conversations. The information transmitted during the signaling can also be misused by an attacker, eg. if an incorrect setting in the terminal transmits the password in plain text at login.
* With unprotected or insufficiently protected radio transmission (eg if a WLAN is only secured with WEP), an attacker can easily handle the entire communication.
* E-mails can be read through the web all the way through if they are not encrypted. Unencrypted emails should therefore be compared not with classic letters, but with postcards.


Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



