#G 0.25 Failure of devices or systems
The failure of a component of an IT system can lead to a failure of the entire IT operation and thus the failure of important business processes. In particular, central components of an IT system are suitable for bringing about such failures, eg. As servers and network coupling elements. The failure of individual components of the technical infrastructure, such as air conditioning or power supply facilities, can contribute to a failure of the entire information network.

The cause of the failure of an IT system is not always technical failure (eg G0.8 failure or power supply failure). Complaints can also often be attributed to human error (eg G 0.24 destruction of equipment or data carriers) or to preventive actions (eg G 0.16 Theft of equipment Data carriers or documents, G0.04 tampering). Also, lack of maintenance, for example due to failure of the maintenance personnel, can lead to technical failure. Higher levels of violence (eg fire, lightning, chemical accidents) can also cause damage, but these damages are often many times higher.

If time-critical applications are run on an IT system, the consequential damage following a system failure is correspondingly high if there are no alternative options.



## Examples 
* A firmware is imported into an IT system that is not intended for this type of system. The IT system then no longer starts faultlessly and must be made ready for operation again by the manufacturer.
* For an Internet Service Provider (ISP), a power failure in a storage system caused it to shut down. Although the actual error could be remedied quickly, the affected IT systems could not be restarted afterwards because of inconsistencies in the file system. As a consequence, several ISP-operated web servers were unavailable for days.




