#G 0.4 Pollution, dust, corrosion
In addition to electronics, many IT devices also contain components that work mechanically, such as eg. for fixed and removable disks, DVD drives, printers, scanners, etc., but also for processors and power supplies. With increasing demands on quality and speed, these devices must work more and more precisely. Even slight contamination can lead to a malfunction of a device. Dust and dirt can, for example, be caused to a greater extent by the following activities:

* Work on walls, double floors or other building parts,
* Retrofitting work on the hardware or
* Unpacking actions of appliances (eg styrofoam).


Existing safety circuits in the devices usually lead to a timely shutdown. Although this does not affect the direct damage to the device, the repair costs and downtimes, it does mean that the affected device is not available.

The equipment and infrastructure can also be attacked by corrosion. This can have a negative impact not only on IT but even on building safety.

Corrosion can also indirectly cause further dangers. For example, water can escape from corroded areas (see G 0.3 Water).

Overall, soiling, dust or corrosion can precipitate or damage IT components and utilities. As a result, proper information processing may be impaired.



## Examples 
* When setting up a server in a media room, along with a copier and a fax machine, the processor fan and power supply fan jammed together one after the other due to the high levels of dust in the room. The failure of the processor fan caused sporadic server crashes. The failure of the power supply fan eventually led to overheating of the power supply resulting in a short circuit, which eventually resulted in a total failure of the server.
* In order to hang a blackboard in a office, household appliances drilled holes in the wall. The employee had left his office for a short time. After returning to work, he found that his PC was not working anymore. The cause for this was drilling dust, which had penetrated through the ventilation slots in the PC power supply.




