#G 0.46 Integrity loss of valuable information
The integrity of information can be affected by several causes, such as: through manipulation, personal misbehavior, application misuse, software malfunction, or transmission error.

* The aging of data media can lead to information losses.
* Data transmission may cause transmission errors.
* Malware programs can be used to modify or destroy entire databases.
* Incorrect entries can lead to undesirable transactions, which are often not noticed for a long time.
* Attackers might try to manipulate data for their own purposes, eg. to gain access to other IT systems or data assets.
* By manipulating the index database, electronic archives can be prompted to archive or play back documents that have been found.


If information is no longer integer, it can come to a variety of problems:

* In the simplest case, information can no longer be read, that is, further processed.
* Data may be accidentally or intentionally mislaid to mislead the user. As a result, for example, transfers in the wrong amount or to the wrong recipient can be triggered, the sender details of e-mails could be manipulated or much more.
* If encrypted or compressed data sets lose their integrity (here, the change of one bit is sufficient), under certain circumstances they can no longer be decrypted or unpacked.
* The same is true for cryptographic keys, and here too the change of one bit is enough to make the keys unusable. This also leads to the fact that data can no longer be decrypted or checked for authenticity.
* Documents stored in electronic archives lose their authenticity if their integrity can not be proven.


Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



