#G 0.8 Failure or malfunction of the power supply
Despite high security of supply, there are always interruptions of the power supply by the distribution system operators (VNB) or energy supply companies (EVU). The greatest number of these disturbances is so short, with times under one second, that man does not notice them. But even interruptions of more than 10 ms are suitable for disrupting the IT operation. In addition to disturbances in the supply network, however, disconnections in the case of work that has not been announced or cable damage during civil engineering work can lead to the power supply being completed.

The power supply is not only the obvious, direct power consumers (PC, lighting, etc.) dependent. Many infrastructure facilities today rely on electricity, e.g. Elevators, air conditioning, alarm systems, security locks, automatic door locks and sprinkler systems. Even the water supply in high-rise buildings is dependent on the flow of electricity because of the pumps required to generate pressure in the upper floors. In the event of prolonged power failures, the failure of the infrastructure facilities may result in no longer being able to carry out any activities in the affected areas.

In addition to failures, other power supply failures may affect operation. For example, overvoltage can cause malfunction or even damage to electrical equipment.

It should also be noted that failures or disruptions to the power supply in the neighborhood may also affect one's own business processes, for example if access roads are blocked.



## Examples 
* Due to an error in the UPS of a data center, it did not switch back to normal operation after a short power failure. After discharging the batteries (after about 40 minutes), all computers in the affected server room failed.
* At the beginning of 2001, there was a power emergency in California over 40 days. The power supply was so tight there that the California Grid Monitoring Authority ordered rotating power cuts. These power cuts, which lasted up to 90 minutes, affected not only households but also the high-tech industry. Because with the power failure also alarm systems and security cameras were turned off, the utilities kept their shut-off plans secret.
* In November 2005, after heavy snowfalls in Lower Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia, many communities were without electricity for days on end because many high-voltage pylons had been destroyed under the snow and ice load. The restoration of the power supply took several days.




