#G 0.9 Failure or malfunction of communication networks
For many business processes, intact communication links are needed at least temporarily, be it by telephone, fax, e-mail or other services via local or wide area networks. If some or more of these communication links fail over a longer period of time, this may, for example, lead to

* Business processes can no longer be processed because required information can not be retrieved,
* Customers can no longer reach the institution for queries,
* Orders can not be delivered or terminated.


If time-critical applications are operated on IT systems that are connected via wide area networks, the potential damage and consequential losses resulting from a power failure are correspondingly high if there are no alternatives (eg connection to a second network) Communication network) are available.

Similar problems can occur when the required communication networks are disrupted, but without complete failure. For example, communication links may have an increased error rate or other quality deficiencies. Incorrect operating parameters can also lead to impairments.



## Examples 
* Today, the Internet has become an indispensable means of communication for many institutions, including the retrieval of important information, the presentation of information and communication with customers and partners. Of course, companies that specialize in Internet-based services depend to a great extent on a functioning Internet connection.
* As networks converge, voice and data services are often transported via the same technical components (eg VoIP). However, this increases the risk that the voice services and the data services will fail at the same time in the event of a disruption of the communication technology.




