#G 0.2 Unfavorable climatic conditions
Unfavorable climatic conditions, such as heat, frost or high humidity, can lead to various kinds of damage, for example malfunctions in technical components or damage to storage media. Frequent fluctuations in climatic conditions increase this effect. Unfavorable climatic conditions can also lead to people being unable to work or even being injured or killed.

Every person and every technical device has a temperature range within which its normal functioning or proper function is guaranteed. If the ambient temperature exceeds the limits of this range, it may cause work interruptions, malfunctions or device failures.

So z. B. electrical energy is converted into heat in a server room by the devices contained therein and therefore the room is heated up. In case of insufficient ventilation, the permissible operating temperature of the devices may be exceeded. When the sun is shining in the room, temperatures above 50 ° C can be reached.

For ventilation purposes, windows of server rooms are often opened without permission. In the transitional period (spring, autumn), this can lead to large temperature fluctuations that exceed the permissible air humidity due to strong cooling.

When storing digital long-term storage media, excessive temperature fluctuations or excessive humidity can lead to data errors and reduced storage times. Some manufacturers specify the optimal storage conditions for long-term storage media with temperatures of 20 to 22 C and a humidity of 40%. Analog storage media, such as paper or microfilm, also require certain storage conditions. If paper is stored too damp, for example, it may become moldy or dissolved.



## Examples 
* High summer temperatures and insufficient cooling can lead to temperature-induced precipitations of IT equipment.
* Too much dust in IT systems can lead to heat build-up.
* Excessively high temperatures can cause the demagnetization of magnetic data carriers.




