#G 1.6 cable fire
When a cable is set on fire, either by self-ignition or by flaming, this has several consequences:

* Damage to the core insulation can result in short circuits or physical failures that cause the relevant protective devices (circuit breakers or fuses) to respond, interrupting the supply.
* The connection of individual wires or the entire cable can be interrupted. Particularly critical is an interruption of only the protective conductor (PE), while active conductors (L and N) are still in operation. The protective measures are ineffective in this case. An immediate danger arises in the TNC network in the event of failure of the PEN conductor. In this case, devices of protection class 1 would suddenly become live on the housing. The danger of electric shock is obvious.


* It can develop aggressive gases. On the one hand, these can be corrosive, that is, they can damage information and communication technology. However, they can also be toxic, thus leading to personal injury (eg poisoning). Corrosive gases can also cause z. B. in reinforced concrete ceilings and walls-bearing building structures are attacked and thus static problems arise in the rehabilitation of a cable fire damage.


* On cables whose insulation material is not flame retardant or self-extinguishing, a fire can spread. Even fire barriers do not prevent this completely, they delay only the spread.
* In densely packed routes, it can lead to smoldering, which remain undetected for a long time and thus lead to the spread of the fire, long before it breaks open. A heating of the cables results in a reduced conductivity, the loop resistance increases. This can result in additional heating, which still supports the critical process.


Cable fires often cause only a slight increase in temperature during the formation phase. There is thus the additional risk that a significant amount of smoke will be produced by cold smoke before smoke detectors attached to the ceiling are activated.



## Examples 
* In an administrative building, the existing electrical cables were not replaced for cost reasons, but overloaded against better knowledge. The necessary adjustment work was not carried out, as a new administrative building should shortly be occupied.
* The overloaded pipes heated up and due to the very dense laying there was a heat accumulation, which then led to a smoldering fire. This was only discovered when the lines failed due to the high heat. Several days passed before the workplaces affected by the fire could be properly used again.




