#G 1.4 Fire
In addition to direct damage caused by the fire at a building or its facility, consequential damage can be shown which, in particular for information technology, can achieve a catastrophic extent in its damage effect. L schwassersch den occur, for example, not only at the point of fire. They can also arise in lower building parts. The combustion of PVC produces chlorine gases, which together with the humidity and water form hydrochloric acid. Distributing the hydrochloric acid fumes over the air conditioner can cause damage to sensitive electronic equipment located in a part of the building far from the fire. But even normal smoke can be damaging effect on the IT device in this way.

A fire is not only caused by the careless handling of fire (eg by uncontrolled open flames, welding and soldering work), but also by improper use of electrical equipment (eg unattended coffee machine, Overload of multiple sockets). Technical defects on electrical devices can also lead to a fire.

The spread of a fire can be promoted inter alia by:

* Stopping fire doors by wedges,
* improper storage of flammable materials (eg waste paper),
* Failure to comply with the relevant standards and regulations for fire prevention,
* missing fire alarm devices (eg smoke detectors),
* missing or not ready-to-use manual fire extinguishers or automatic fire extinguishing systems (eg gas extinguishing systems),
* Insufficient preventive fire protection (eg lack of fire barriers on cable trays or use of unsuitable insulating materials for heat and sound insulation).




## Examples 
* At the beginning of the 1990s, a large center in the Frankfurt area suffered catastrophic fire damage, which resulted in a complete breakdown.
* Again and again it happens that electrical small items such. B. coffee machines or table lamps improperly installed or installed and thereby cause trouble.




