#G 1.19 Failure of a service provider or supplier
Hardly any institution today works without service providers such as suppliers, outsourcing or cloud service providers. If organizational units are dependent on service providers, failures of external services, such as IT systems or infrastructural connections, can be detrimental to task completion. The partial or complete failure of an outsourcing or cloud service provider or a supplier can have a significant impact on business continuity, especially in critical business processes. The cause of a default can be a variety of nature, such as bankruptcy, unilateral termination of the contract by the service provider or the supplier, operational problems caused by, for example, forces of nature or staff failure, quality problems or image damage. Another characteristic of the cloud computing market is its high level of dynamism, which is often the result of competitors taking over cloud service providers. A concomitant change in the service portfolio can impair service availability for the user.

In the case of externally operated IT systems and applications, in the event of inadequate structuring or isolation of the IT systems of the service provider, the failure of one system of another customer may already lead to business processes being impaired at the customer. This can always be a problem if individual IT components are shared for different customers of a service provider. In that case, an error in the database of any outsourcing or cloud service provider's customer may cause, for example, host processing to discontinue batch processing of multiple customers if it is configured poorly or incorrectly. Similar problems arise when the connection between out-sourcing institution and outsourcing or cloud service provider is completed.



## Examples 
* A company has installed its servers in a data center of an external service provider. After a fire in this data center, the company's finance department was no longer able to act. There were significant financial losses for the company.
* The just-in-time production of a company depended on the supply of equipment from external service providers. After a truck failed due to a defect at the service provider, the delivery of urgently needed parts was drastically delayed. This delayed the production.
* A banking institution handled all the money transports with a value-transporting company. The value-transport company surprisingly filed for bankruptcy. The agreement and tour planning with a new value transporter took several days and resulted in considerable problems and delays in the supply and disposal of bank branches. This case resulted in a large reputational damage for the bank.
* By terminating personnel as a result of being taken over by another provider, the cloud service provider loses know-how carriers. As a result, inconsistencies in the operation, such as ambiguity regarding the implementation of the service, arise and service agreements (SLAs) are not complied with and contracted services fail.




