#G 1.10 Failure of a wide area network
Wide area networks, also referred to as wide area networks (WANs), have been developed for voice and data transmission over long distances and can interconnect various LANs as well as individual computers.

WANs are generally served by telecommunications administrations, but also by private network operators. It also happens that they belong to certain institutions and are only used by them. The quality of the communication connections can therefore be different.

The causes for the failure of a WAN can be manifold. Therefore, it is possible that a network outage will affect only individual users, a vendor, or a specific region. Often, such failures only last a short time, but there are always longer failures, which can cause massive other problems.

The nature of network failures plays a role when time-critical applications are operated on the IT systems that are connected via wide area networks. The potential for damage and consequential damage resulting from a power failure can be correspondingly high if no alternatives such as, for example, the connection to a second communication network or evasion procedures for Internet services are provided or specified.



## Examples 
* For a large Internet provider, a central server node failed. The attempt to switch to a redundant server node failed. As a result, about 250,000 domains hosted by this provider were unreachable for a few days.
* The simultaneous breakup of three adjacent deep-sea cables in the Mediterranean off Egypt in December 2008 paralyzed 90 percent of Internet traffic between Europe, the Middle East and Asia.




