#G 1.2 Failure of IT systems
The failure of a component of an IT system can lead to a failure of the entire IT operation and thus the failure of important business processes. In particular, central components of an IT system are suitable for bringing about such cases, eg. B.LAN server or network coupling elements. The failure of individual components of the technical infrastructure, such as air conditioning or power supply facilities, can contribute to a failure of the entire information network.

The cause of the failure of an IT system is not always a technical failure (eg G4.4 power supply failure). Complaints can also often be attributed to human error (eg G 3.2 Accidental destruction of equipment or data) or preventive actions (eg G 5.4 Theft, G  5.102 sabotage). Also, lack of maintenance, for example due to failure of the maintenance personnel, can lead to technical failure. Higher levels of violence (eg fire, lightning, chemical accidents) can also cause damage, but these damages are often many times higher.

If time-critical applications are operated on an IT system, the consequential damages are correspondingly high after a system failure, if there are no alternative options.



## Examples 
* Voltage peaks in the power supply destroy the power supply of an important IT system. Since this is an older model, there is no immediate substitute. The repair takes a day, during which time the entire IT operation is not available.
* A firmware is imported into an IT system that is not intended for this type of system. The IT system will then no longer start faultlessly and must be made ready for operation again by the manufacturer.
* For an Internet Service Provider (ISP), a power failure in a storage system caused it to shut down. Although the actual error could be remedied quickly, the affected IT systems could not be restarted afterwards because of inconsistencies in the file system. Until all follow-up issues were resolved, several of the ISP-powered web servers were unavailable for days.




