#G 2.77 Inappropriate transfer of paper data to electronic archives
Many electronic archives regularly store documents that were originally only available in paper form and must therefore be transferred to an electronic form. This is done while preserving selected features of the original document. Depending on the intended use of the document, different requirements arise here. This may be the consistency of the external appearance of the copy with the original, for example when using an image file. It can also the match of text excerpts, z. Using a text file, or mapping other features, such as. Biometric data or context data.

The filing as a text or image file alone is not always sufficient for the proof of the original fidelity of the document, since both manipulations and errors can occur:

* Text and image editing programs can be used to manipulate existing documents.


* Errors during scanning can spoof the semantics of the recorded data, which can trigger misinterpretations and calculations. For example, important parts of the document may be forgotten during scanning.


In some archiving scenarios it is intended to destroy the paper documents after scanning for reasons of space. It must be assumed that after the original document has been destroyed, the later proof of the original fidelity of the copy and the document can no longer be provided directly.

This means that all the features of the original document necessary for later verification purposes must already be recorded in electronic form during the transfer phase and must be stored comprehensibly. If characteristics are not taken into account or forgotten (eg the number of pages of an original document), this can considerably reduce the effectiveness of the documents, since it is often no longer possible to retrieve features of the original document

An inadequate procedure for the transmission of documents risks the effectiveness and traceability of the subsequent processing of documents and ultimately the correctness of the archived documents.



## Examples 
* The incoming correspondence of a public agency is scanned for later electronic processing and stored in the archive. Occasionally, however, it is forgotten to scan the back of a letter. Since the incoming correspondence is destroyed after scanning, the original state of the letter can no longer be detected.




