#G 2.153 Unsuitable protection of the transmission path in a terminal server environment
Terminal servers allow physically remote clients to centrally run applications on an IT system. Depending on the requirements, the clients can access the terminal server via a LAN or even via public networks, such as the Internet. If the information required for this is transmitted unprotected between the clients and the servers, sensitive information can be intercepted, in particular for public networks, or entire sessions can be transferred to the terminal server. When a session is taken, an attacker might be able to obtain all user rights of the user without having to overcome the security barriers of each individual service.

The following information that is transmitted between the terminal server and the clients may be listened to or changed:

* Authentication information,
* User input sent by clients to the terminal servers,
* Screen information output on the clients
* Data from the clipboard and
* File transfers between the local drives of the client and the server.


Furthermore, information is also transmitted to the server redirected devices of the terminal, such as

* Audio devices,
* serial or parallel interfaces,
* USB devices and
* Printer.


Older terminal server services, such as. For example, Microsoft Windows Terminal Server 2000, in its default configuration, uses only one-way, intra-protocol encryption for the secure transport of user input. However, this information is received by the terminal server and returned in an encrypted form for display on the terminal.

As of Windows Server 2003, Microsoft uses bi-directional encryption by default. To do this, a encryption method must be negotiated in advance between the client and the server. For example, in the client-compatible mode, the client determines the method to be selected. If an inadequate encryption method or too short keys are used, communication between client and server can also be read or changed.

X-Window does not provide encryption between the server and client. Without additional mechanisms, such as SSH tunnels or VPNs, the data stream can also be manipulated and viewed.



