#G 2.191 Inadequate role and authorization concept
The careful definition of an authorization concept prevents unlawful access to information systems and thus also protects the integrity, availability and authenticity of the associated data. Authorization concepts have relevance for both users and administrators ofIT systems.

As a rule, authorization concepts are linked to the definition of roles to which certain authorizations can subsequently be granted or revoked. If the relevant roles are insufficiently defined, this can reduce the effectiveness of the authorization concept. Employees may have access to systems and data that they may not be authorized to violate, which will violate the confidentiality and integrity of the data.

Existing roles and authorization concepts have to be checked on a regular basis, as the employee and organizational structure of an institution is subject to constant change. The withdrawal or the granting of authorizations for employees when changing the work area and thus assuming a new role or at the end of the employment relationship must be ensured. If these requirements are not met, employees may access unauthorized (confidential) information and, if necessary, modify, destroy or misuse it for their own benefit. Financial losses and damage to the image of an institution are possible consequences.

Detailed role concepts entail high complexity and a concomitant increase in error susceptibility. Under certain circumstances, an institution sees itself as having a conflict between the quality of a role concept and the ability to adequately manage it.

The lack of verification of the role concept with the cloud service provider in relation to the role concept in the own institution creates a break in the role-based end-to-end administration and can lead to a loss of service availability and data integrity lead.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



