#G 2.156 Compatibility issues with raising the Active Directory feature level
Active Directory, or Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) since Windows Server 2008, supports various functional levels (AD functional level) for domain and forest.

The functional levels correspond to the functional scope of the respective operating system versions and allow mixed domains, for example with Windows Server 2003 and 2008 domain controllers.

Moving to a higher functional level is done in two steps for Windows Server 2008:

* Extension of the AD schema before the inclusion of a Windows Server 2008 as domain controller (with the help of adprep)
* Increasing the domain functional level or the forest functional level after switching all domain controllers (with the help of domprep).


Compatibility problems can occur in both steps, but especially in the second step. Both steps can not be reversed, no rollback is possible. It is also not recommended to restore a backup because all domain controllers are affected (see also M 6.108 Data Protection for Domain Controllers).

Often, problems only appear in productive operation, since test environments usually can not map the full complexity of a grown AD structure.

Compatibility issues often also affect non-Windows systems and applications attached to the AD service. This can be LDAP interfaces with custom schema extensions, e.g. B.

* Telephone systems, CTI or UM services,
* Samba servers and embedded samba servers in NAS or SAN systems and
* Interfaces on Unix / Linux based web services.


As a result, AD integration can cause malfunctions that can permanently disrupt these services.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



