#G 2.4 Insufficient control of safety measures
If already implemented security measures (eg classification of information, data security, access control, requirements for behavior in case of emergency) are not consistently implemented and regularly monitored, they may not be effective or disregarded. Defects detected during a check can usually be disposed of without damage. If the suspects only notice in the event of a claim, it is often not possible to react in time and to react appropriately to the respective situation.

In addition, there are security measures that are only effective if those in control control them. These include, for example, logging functions whose security properties do not take effect until the log data is evaluated.



## Examples 
* To prepare for crimes, lock cylinders in doors and gates may be replaced by unauthorized persons. Especially when it comes to Zug ,nge that are rarely used or are intended only as Notausg nge, these are only checked in panic direction when striping. The functionality of the lock cylinders is often neglected.
* The security guideline of an institution stipulates that the used smartphones can not be rooted or that no jailbreak may be carried out, since this way the security features of the operating system can be bypassed. Such modified smartphones are no longer safe to use within an institution. If this requirement is not checked, it is possible for employees with an insecure smartphone to access the network or valuable information of the institution.
* In a public agency, some Unix servers are used for external data communication. Due to the central importance of these IT systems, the security concept stipulates that the Unix servers are subject to an integrity check every week. Since it is not regularly checked whether these checks are actually taking place, it only becomes apparent when the security incident is resolved that the IT department has renounced such integrity checks. The reason given was the poor staffing of the department.
* In one company, the role of the z / OS Security Auditor was not filled. As a result, over time, RACF attitudes no longer met the company's security requirements. Only after a loss of production was it noticed that some users had more rights than they needed for their work. An important application for the production had been accidentally stopped by them.




