#G 2.187 Missing or inadequate multi-client administration concept for storage solutions
In the shared use of IT systems by different institutions, as it is widely used in the cloud environment, exists due to a lack of or inadequate role concept, the risk of cross-client administrative access. Since administrators usually have very extensive privileges, this represents a significant threat to all security objectives of an institution.

Particularly in connection with the service model Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), which is frequently used in conjunction with cloud storage, there is therefore a need to use a multi-client administration concept.

From a security point of view, the following possible outcomes of a multi-client administration concept can be distinguished:

* The storage solution operator separates its administrators according to their clients. If there is no concept for this procedure or if it is insufficiently implemented, there is a risk that the administrator accesses the data for client B for client A.
* The clients themselves receive administrative rights for their respective area. In the case of a non-existent or insufficiently implemented concept, there is a risk that employees of client A can access the data of client B directly.


If an institution uses storage systems that provide storage for several clients independently of one another (eg virtual file servers in a NAS environment), a lack of role concept can lead to the risk of cross-administrative access.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



