#G 2.108 Missing or inadequate planning of the SAP deployment
Using an SAP system without adequate planning can lead to a variety of problems. Among other things, it always comes to security problems. The following are just some of the problems that make it clear that good planning is necessary before using an SAP system:

* In a medium-sized company, an SAP system is to be introduced. It was decided for an installation on a computer (single-host installation). For time reasons, no resource planning was performed. For cost reasons, a computer was procured from a special action by a computer manufacturer. After the installation, it turns out that the computer is equipped with too little main memory and due to hardware limitations can not be equipped with much more memory. The need to procure new, suitable hardware results in delays and significant additional costs.
* Due to missing task separation planning within the scope of the administration concept, an administrator can access all HR data of an R / 3 System.
* The responsibilities and processes for the change management and the emergency concept of an SAP system were not planned. Therefore, developers have full access to the production system, as access for emergency repairs is essential. Access to all account and credit card data of corporate customers is thus possible.
* If persons have developer access to productive SAP systems (these are assigned via the authorization object S_DEVELOP), these persons can undermine the security mechanisms of the SAP system and access functions and data without authorization.
* If transactions of an SAP system can be called without authorization, this can have far-reaching consequences. As a rule, it is then possible to access functions and data that should not be available to the access user. If administrative transactions are affected, system security may be completely undermined.
* If an attacker has access to the operating system level of an SAP system, the attacker can interfere with the configuration of the SAP system. For example, access to the profile parameters is possible, which, among other things, can be used to reduce access barriers (eg account lock settings). The Java stack can access configuration files, which can then be modified. This can drastically reduce safety. If the computer running the database of the SAP system is affected, the database contents can also be obtained very simply by file copies. The security mechanisms of the SAP system are thereby undermined.
* Standard installations are usually not immediately designed for the safety requirements of a productive operation. If components with standard configuration are still operated productively, there is a high risk that the system and data security is at risk. Attack capabilities can arise from a variety of unconfigured interfaces, ranging from unauthorized access to functions and data to accessing the operating system under the privileges of the SAP system.
* If the (publicly known) default passwords of important users such as SAP * or DDIC in the ABAP stack or Administrator or system in the Java stack are not changed, then attackers can gain administrator access. This allows an attacker to access all SAP system data and perform administrative functions.
* If an SAP system is discarded and its identity (IP, SID) is not taken over by a replacement system, the incomplete rejection can lead to attackers setting up their own SAP system, which identifies the segregated system takes over. Accesses of other SAP systems over existing destinations are then accepted by the attacker system. This can be used to retrieve and save data there. These also contain authentication information that is required for the login process. Often, technical users are used in the same way in several systems, so that access to other systems can also be achieved.
* If the HTTP-based RFC SOAP interface is activated for an SAP system (ABAP ICF service or JAVA stack SOAP service), users can use RFC-capable modules via the HTTP interface call. This is usually not the case in scenarios where SAP system access is via a browser. Nevertheless, RFC calls can be made in this case so that unauthorized access to data is possible depending on the authorization setting.
* If important system events are not logged or the log entries are not evaluated, attacks or security breaches can not be detected. Successful attacks can not be countered or followed up. Therefore, unnoticed unauthorized access to data or functions may exist.


Status: as of 2006



