#G 2.197 Insufficient integration of cloud services into your own IT
The decision of an institution to use cloud services implies that these services are also appropriately integrated into their own IT. If this necessary integration is insufficient, it can not be ensured that the commissioned cloud services can be accessed by the user in full. Accordingly, commissioned cloud services may not deliver the required and agreed performance or access to services is not possible at all or only delayed. Impairment of service availability is the consequence.

If a cloud service is only insufficiently integrated into one's own IT, and if employees are in principle entitled to use this service, it is frequently observed that they use the service without official IT support. Thus, the institution can create a shadow IT and thus a potential loss of control over company information.

An optimal integration of cloud services into the IT of an institution is often impaired by the following aspects:

* The performance of the network connection is undersized. The data transport can therefore only be restricted, which leads to the delayed copying of data, extended access times and recognizable performance losses. Possible reasons for this include, for example, an inadequately selected bandwidth, a lack of prioritization of the services (quality of service), conceptual weaknesses of the network (see G 2.45 Conceptual weaknesses of the network) Network) or weaknesses in the connection to an outsourcing or cloud service provider (see G 4.97 Weaknesses in the connection to an outsourcing or cloud service provider).
* The availability of the interface systems is insufficient because necessary changes in the availability requirements were not sufficiently taken into account. One possible manifestation in this context is inadequate availability in terms of connectivity to the cloud service provider. For example, the existing Internet access of an institution was previously considered uncritical. By transferring mission-critical services to the cloud, Internet access requirements are becoming increasingly critical. The insufficient availability of the interface systems is a second possible expression. For example, the proxy used within an institution was considered uncritical in terms of its availability. However, moving services to the cloud makes it a (highly) critical system.
* The performance of the interface systems is not sufficiently selected. In this context, institutions should pay particular attention to those systems that can be found at the interface to the cloud service provider. Examples of these are load balancers, proxies, routers, security gateways or federation systems.
* The performance of internal systems is insufficient for a planned API connection for data exchange between Cloud Service and internal systems. A typical example of this is the exchange of master data between the local ERP system (Enterprise Resource Planning) and a CRM system (Customer Relationship Management) as cloud service.




## Examples 
* An institution decides to use an online communication platform to promote collaboration within distributed teams. The commissioned service, however, is not fully integrated into the IT. Individual functions, such as file sharing for defined team members, do not work as expected. Access to a shared file can only be delayed or not at all.




