#G 2.206 Insufficient security requirements in the development of embedded systems
For cost reasons, information security in the development of embedded systems is often assigned a lower value than z. B.Performance or reliability requirements.

If security requirements in one or more of the development sub-processes

* requirements management
* System and interface design
* Detailed design
* implementation
* Virtual and real test levels
* Integration levels with total integration


insufficient account can be taken of serious vulnerabilities in the embedded system. These are often subsequently identifiable only with great effort, since the individual specifications and documents build on each other and there is thus no starting point to determine deviations. Design or methodological limitations of the security functionality of embedded systems software are not recognized when the verification process is limited to the specified functions.

Embedded systems can be wounded if findings from security precautions are not included in the development process, the security function can not be proven, and the development tools used do not make it possible to meaningfully model and implement security mechanisms.



## Examples 
* The memory allocation plan of an embedded system does not take into account remaining unused memory areas. Malware introduced into these areas remains unrecognized until it is activated. An embedded system can have a multi-megabyte flash ROM from which it boots its application software after power-up. These memories are not used as memory, so the software and memory usage will not change. The memory is seldom used completely so that even larger static memory areas could be covered with malware. Since such areas are marked as empty, programs in these areas are not visible through the software. Software in these memory areas is immune to a system restart and often also against the reinstallation of the operating software, as only the areas occupied by the operating software are overwritten. The empty memory areas can only be checked with special tools. Damage may occur if z. For example, malware that has access to the bus system is activated and then changes data or causes a system to ignore certain data. Significant damage can occur if the inter-system is highly vulnerable, such as an embedded encryption and decryption system.
* In an embedded system, resources are reorganized or reconfigured in the event of power fluctuations or severe error messages as part of the reboot. During this short period of time it may be vulnerable, e.g. B.If the I / O ports are accessed or security mechanisms for authentication can be bypassed. During normal operation, the safety functions would have prevented this. If the manufacturer's tests were limited to the specified functionality under normal operating conditions, the vulnerability would go undetected.




