#G 2.137 Lack of and insufficient planning in the distribution of patches and changes
In order to be able to distribute patches and changes in the designated time frame in an institution, the necessary technical and human resources have to be planned as part of the patch and change management. If sufficient resources are not available, there is a risk that the distribution of changes will take longer than planned or even failing. As a result, business processes with high availability requirements could be adversely affected if B.Hierf r need for servers or databases fail.

Patches and changes can also be distributed software-based. However, if the software used does not adapt to the growing and more complex IT landscape, the distribution ultimately becomes more time consuming. As a result, security updates can no longer be distributed promptly.

In part, the order in which patches and changes need to be distributed is relevant to the consistency and security of the entire system. For example, a new version of security software might require an operating system that has all the latest patches in it. In this case, the operating systems in the information network must first be updated, if necessary, restarted, and then the new security software can first be installed. A distribution software that does not check the patches and changes that already exist might try to install the security software before the successful OS update. This would leave her with an inconsistent or even unpatched system.

When updating software on IT systems, the application or operating system often has to be restarted. Complex applications, such as databases, take time to recover their data after an update. During this time, the applications and data of the systems are not available. For systems with high availability requirements, this can have a negative impact on the institution. This is especially the case if, due to errors during the change process, the systems are not available for longer than planned. Such failures may result in employees or customers being impaired in their work.



## Examples 
* An institution installs a security patch for a Windows server. This must then be restarted. The system is not available during this time. Since the logon process on this server is directed to the internalLAN, users can not log in during this time and work only with restrictions. The institution has agreed with its customers on a high level of availability through service level agreements and in this way is in violation of existing contracts.
* The IT department of a company installs a security patch on a voice-over-IP server. When restarting the system, the configuration file of the VoIP service must also be adapted. During this time no external calls can be accepted. The lack of accessibility of the company has a negative effect on the external perception of customers.




