#G 2.36 Inappropriate restriction of user environment
Most operating systems provide the ability to customize the user environment for each user. Where this is not the case, special security products can generally be used for this purpose. There are basically two options:

* Certain functionalities are allowed, all others are prohibited.
* Certain functionalities are prohibited, all others are allowed.


In both cases it is possible to limit the user in such a way that he can no longer carry out essential functions or even that meaningful and efficient working with the IT system is no longer possible.

Another way to limit the user environment is to limit the amount of usable space. If the storage space available is no longer sufficient, no further information can be stored. Depending on the type and layout of the affected IT system, this can affect a large number of users and applications. If there is no separation between the data partition and the system partition, the entire IT system can fail because, for example, there is no storage space for swap space.



## Examples 
* In one company, the administrator had given users very little space on the mail server through tight quotas to discipline users. These should be stopped, the mails not in the input post boxes, but in the respective working directories to save. As a result, the mailboxes ran after just a few emails and the users could not receive any further emails.
* A government agency had specified that certain security-related information, such as login attempts, should be logged for one year. Since there was not enough space on the server for the log data, they were always automatically deleted after one week. When it became apparent that business-relevant data had been manipulated, a security gap could be discovered, but it was no longer possible to understand how and by whom it had been exploited.




