#G 2.142 Destruction of evidence traces in the treatment of security incidents
Careless handling or non-compliance when handling security incidents may result in unintentional destruction of important evidence for detection or subsequent legal prosecution.

Examples of this are:

* An administrator determines on his system that the available storage space suddenly becomes smaller and data can no longer be stored. To quickly free up space, he immediately deletes all log files. However, in a later investigation, these log files might have revealed that the server was attacked and showed the potential sources.
* On a PC, an attacker left behind a computer virus or a Trojan horse whose operation and goal can only be analyzed while it is still running. For this, information about the active processes and the main memory contents should be saved. If the affected system is prematurely shut down, this information can no longer be used to analyze and clarify the security incident.
* On a server, an administrator finds an ongoing process that has consumed a lot of computing time in the last few days. In addition, this process writes many temporary files to hard drives and sends unknown information over the Internet. If the process is terminated prematurely and the unknown files are deleted, it may not be possible to find out whether it was an attack tool and whether confidential data was sent.
* An important server is compromised because the administrator could not bring in the latest security updates due to the heavy workload and a lack of maintenance window. In order to avoid possible disciplinary consequences, the administrator enters the missing updates before a security team can analyze the cause of the break-in and the damage incurred. Lack of error culture has thus prevented an analysis of the problem.


Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



