#G 2.195 Lack of monitoring of service provision
Between an institution as a cloud user and a cloud service provider exist contractual arrangements regarding the design of the services offered. The description of the services and their services can be found in service agreements (SLAs - Service Level Agreements with external service providers or OLAs - Operational Level Agreements with internal service provision). In the case of public cloud services, these are often designed in the form of terms and conditions or terms of use.

If the actual service rendered differs from the agreed parameters, this can have a negative impact on the using institution. The monitoring of the service provision of the cloud service provider by the using institution is therefore essential in order to be able to recognize possible service deficiencies and to counteract these.

Frequently, however, the monitoring of service provision is neglected. Infringements or deviations from the agreed level of security will not be identified at all or only at a later date. This also applies when using a private cloud, which is operated by the own IT. On the one hand, the monitoring of service provision must be ensured. On the other hand, the service agreements should also describe the services in sufficient detail and comprehensibility. In the case of monitoring, particular care must be taken to ensure that the responsibilities have been laid down and that there is no self-examination that yields no meaningful results.

In practice, the following manifestations of lack of monitoring of service provision can be observed:

* The cloud service provider makes reports available to the using institution at regular intervals. On the part of the institution, however, these are not evaluated or only delayed in time. If such reports are contractually agreed, but are not required by the user, this also results from insufficient monitoring of service provision.
* Compliance with the security measures by the cloud service provider is not adequately monitored by the user. For example, no independent security audits or penetration tests are carried out or external service providers charged with this. This can lead to an increase in security incidents and a sinking or too low security level on the part of the cloud service provider. For the user, compliance with the required safety level is thus no longer guaranteed.
* It is agreed in the SLA with the cloud service provider that he must prove that the services have been delivered in the required manner, but the using institution does not request them. The cloud user thus does not gain any knowledge about the failure to provide the SLAs and, as a result, runs the risk of not being able to provide his own services, or can do so only inadequately.
* The use of subcontractors by the cloud service provider may also be a hazard if it is not regulated in what form its service provision is monitored.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



