#G 2.164 Exceeding the principle of necessity in the processing of personal data
Personal data may only be processed if this is necessary to fulfill the legitimate tasks of the data processing body responsible for it.

In data processing, in the interest of the data subject, the least restrictive processing of his or her personal right must be chosen (proportionality).

The principle of necessity is always violated when editors have access to complete data, even though they do not need such extensive accessibility to perform their tasks.

Another very critical point is the far-reaching access rights of the system administrators and network administrators. Common operating systems, especially PC and network operating systems, still allow for all-encompassing access permissions that allow them to read and write arbitrary files, and in particular to manipulate or even manipulate log files that are actually intended for data protection control and data processing revision to delete. Thus, possible traces can be eliminated unrecognized.

Even a lack of separation of functions between system technology, programming, application and control and a lack of foreclosure of programs and databases may help to exceed the requirement of necessity.



## Examples 
* An insurance clerk is exclusively responsible for insured persons with the initial letters A to G, but can access the data of all insured persons.
* Access rights are passed up according to the hierarchy of the data processing unit, so that ultimately the head of the office can read and change all the data by virtue of his office.




