#G 2.117 Lack of or insufficient planning of the WLAN deployment
A WLAN must be carefully planned and set up so that individual security gaps can not affect all of the IT systems connected to it. This can even lead to an inadequately secured WLAN compromising a connected business or company network. If security mechanisms between LAN and WLAN are not coordinated, this can also lead to security gaps, for example due to a lack of planning for the separation of user groups.

Missing or inadequate planning can lead to a variety of problems, such as the following:

* Sensitive data could be read if no or only insufficient security measures were implemented in the WLAN.
* The performance of a wireless network could be reduced by disregarding other WLAN installations or other wireless systems as they enter the wireless network's area of ??use.
* If the design of a WLAN does not take account of built-in containment or containment of absorbent building materials (such as steel cabinets, wet cells, utility lines, reinforced concrete construction), its performance may also be reduced.
* Common channel interference from an adjacent radio cell of one's own WLAN is another frequent cause for faults in a WLAN. As a result, two participants of adjacent cells can interfere with each other because their radio waves overlap in space and interfere with each other.
* Functouchers can seriously affect performance. In order to avoid radio handsets, the transmission power is often simply increased if the WLAN planning is insufficiently planned. As a result, the WLAN may radiate into areas where it is not needed and where it may be intercepted.
* An impact of poor planning may occur. B. Insufficient transmission capacity that can limit or even prevent the use of bandwidth-intensive applications.


An additional risk to the LAN arises if there is insufficient security of the connection between the access points or the distribution system and the wired infrastructure. If there is no physical or logical protection at the level of the distribution system, then after compromising the security of the air interface or the security settings on the access point, the entire broadcast domain in which the access point is located can be intercepted , The resulting information could be used to attack the entire LAN.



