#G 2.89 Insufficient information security in the outsourcing implementation phase
An outsourcing project is usually implemented in several steps. The introductory phase is usually accompanied by drastic internal changes on the part of the client. In addition, an outsourcing project is accompanied by stringent scheduling and financial conditions. Often, there is no time for regular security checks and audits. In order to meet deadlines and budgets during the introductory phase, the quality of work often suffers and security concepts are neglected. However, this has a serious impact on information security. Possible additional information security threats include:

* The operation of transition solutions takes place under low safety standards. It is often argued: the main thing, it is running! Often, however, such transitional solutions continue to operate for years for various reasons.
* For time and resource reasons, legacy systems are neglected while work is being done on the new systems.


Triggered by the high workload and time pressure, the problems are amplified by conscious or unconscious negligence or error. Reasons can be:

* During the introductory phase, a parallel operation of the systems affected by the outsourcing must take place.
* The connection to the outsourcing service provider creates many new organizational and technical interfaces.
* Employees must be trained in new tasks so that additional resources are tied up.
* An outsourcing project goes hand in hand with the use of new software and hardware. Dangers result from faulty or completely missing tests, from inexperience with new security mechanisms, from installation and administration errors or from software errors.


Safety shortcomings may, however, also arise from organizational weaknesses during the introduction phase. The reasons can be, for example, the following:

* The cooperation between the client's employees and those of the outsourcing service provider or external consultants does not work properly. Causes can be communication problems of a technical or personal nature. Since the opponents of the other side are still unknown at the beginning, attacks on social engineering can also be particularly successful in this phase.
* Decision hierarchies are not working yet or contact persons and responsibilities have not yet been resolved or change frequently. As a result, decisions are not or only very timely. Under certain circumstances, this may result in safety regulations not being complied with, circumvented or not controlled.


For example, this problem also led to problems for a well-known financial institution: While work was being done on setting up a new web server, the legacy system was no longer adequately maintained and was the target of an attack that compromised customer data. The event was made public by the media to an audience of millions.

Status: as of 2005



