#G 2.2 Insufficient knowledge about regulations
Just stipulating regulations does not ensure that they are complied with and the operation is trouble-free. All employees must also be aware of the regulations in force, especially those responsible for the function. Damage that arises because existing regulations are not known, may not be excused with the statements: I did not know that I am responsible for it. or I did not know how to handle it.



## Examples 
* If employees are not informed about how to handle mobile data carriers and e-mails correctly, there is a risk that malware will be distributed in the company or in the authorities. Incorrect behavior could also result in confidential data being accidentally brought into the hands of unauthorized persons.
* In a federal authority, different colored paper baskets were set up, one color of which was destined to be destroyed. Most employees were not informed about this rule.
* In a federal authority, there were a variety of regulations for the implementation of data backups, which had been agreed gradually over time between the IT security officer and the IT department. A demand showed that the affected employees did not know the agreements made and also did not know who their contact was for questions of data security. The regulations were also not documented. Many users have z. For example, no backup was made of the local data of your workstation computer, although only on the servers continuous data backups were performed centrally.
* In a data center, it was stipulated as a new regulation that due to problems with the burglary and fire alarm system, the Pflortnerloge should also be occupied at night. However, the Pf rtnerdienst had not been informed about this rule by the security officer. As a result, the data center was inadequately protected for several weeks at night.
* In one institution, the regulation exists that the loss of a mobile phone must be immediately reported to a control center, so that the SIM card can be locked. One employee was not aware of this rule. He gave the loss only days later after his return from a business trip. In the meantime, however, the lost mobile phone has been calling various premium services and sending text messages to these services. This resulted in considerable economic damage.




