#G 2.178 Insufficient emergency management at the cloud service provider
In the context of an IT operation, problems and malfunctions, even larger, experience can not be completely prevented. Due to the concentration of resources in central data centers, emergency management outcomes in cloud computing can quickly lead to serious consequences. Inadequate incident management can significantly aggravate problems that occur in a cloud infrastructure in the event of disruptions and failures, prolong downtime, and increase the productivity impact of the cloud service provider in the event of an emergency strengths.

In addition to the actual emergency, inadequate emergency management can negate the trust relationship between cloud users and cloud service providers, up to and including the termination of the service agreement.

Inadequate emergency management manifests itself in insufficient coordination and unstructured response to problems encountered.

Inadequate emergency management can be demonstrated in disaster recovery or business continuity management, or both.



## Examples 
* Missing definitions of basic parameters for emergency management, in particular maximum tolerable downtime (MTA: maximum tolerable outage), maximum recovery time (English: RTO: Recovery Time Objective), maximum tolerable data loss (English: RPO: Recovery Point Objective) for cloud infrastructure or cloud services. Thus, no reliable planning for an effective and appropriate approach to emergencies is possible.
* Missing, inadequate or outdated emergency plans for the cloud infrastructure or for cloud services.
* Untreated emergency plans (eg missing or inadequate emergency and disaster recovery scripts) for cloud infrastructure or cloud services.
* Lack of or insufficiently regulated responsibilities for emergency care for the cloud infrastructure or cloud services.
* Undefined communication, escalation, and decision-making paths for emergency care for the cloud infrastructure or cloud services or their noncompliance.
* An emergency operation for the cloud infrastructure or the cloud services is not or insufficiently provided.
* Lack of, incomplete, or misconfigured planning for the use of alternate capacity for the cloud infrastructure, especially the switch to an alternate data center. This may occur, in particular, if cloud services have not been prioritized or mis-prioritized, or if dependencies that require a particular order have not been set or disregarded.
* The failure of cloud administrators can not be compensated because instructions were not documented. This can happen, in particular, if the administrators have everything in mind and were not thought of a possible non-availability.
* Non-current or incomplete backups of cloud services or underlying infrastructure. This may occur, in particular, if backup cycles or retention periods have not been set or have been set incorrectly, or if data backups have not been successful.
* Non-functioning recovery of cloud services from backups.
* Missing, incomplete or incorrect recovery plan for cloud infrastructure or for cloud services.
* Missing, incomplete or incorrect prioritization of cloud services for a restart.
* Non-incomplete or incorrect order for a restart of the cloud infrastructure or cloud services.




