#G 2.45 Conceptual weaknesses of the network
Planning the construction and expansion of a network is a critical success factor for network operation. In particular, as innovation cycles become ever shorter, meshes that, because of their design, can not be adapted to new requirements can quickly become a bottleneck. In addition, errors committed in the design of a network can result in the confidentiality and integrity of the transmitted information no longer being guaranteed:

* Depending on the requirements of network participants (eg working groups) for the confidentiality of the data and the integrity of the network, the network must be designed accordingly. Otherwise, confidential data of a working group can be read by other unauthorized network subscribers. From this point of view, confidentiality may also be lost as a result of the relocation of working group participants or the whole working group, if it is not possible to set up new confidential areas on the network or to change them. This danger analogously affects the integrity of the network or network segments.
* Running new applications on the network at a higher rate than planned at design time can quickly lead to a loss of overall network availability if the network infrastructure does not scale sufficiently as a result of conceptual weaknesses (loss of availability due to overloading). Depending on the selected segmentation of the network, the loss of availability may also affect only individual segments of the network.


For historical reasons, backbone segments with a low maximum bit transmission rate, such as those used in the demand-oriented networks, which are still frequently found today, are often backbone segments. For example, low-bit-rate Ethernet segments exist. This limitation of the throughput in the backbone area affects the availability of the entire network with a high additional load.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



