#G 2.201 Insufficient account of changes in the work environment of employees
Institutions must regularly adapt to changing requirements and framework conditions in order to achieve their business goals and maintain their competitiveness. As a result, their processes and IT systems are subject to constant organizational and technical change.

A comparable situation also exists for the employees: as part of the institution, they are experiencing this change and must adapt to changes in work tasks, in the positions they occupy, and to work with different technical systems. This can be an opportunity for employees to develop but also have a demotivating effect. As a result, changes can lead to safety requirements not being complied with as intended.

Changes for the employees arise mainly from the following events:

* personal development of employees within the institution (transfer, promotion, departure etc.),
* In changes in or for the institution (restructuring, takeover, etc.),
* Introduction of new or changed business processes or IT processes.


In order to change employees' way of dealing with information and with information security, these events must be integrated into target group-specific awareness-raising and training measures.

Examples:

* An intern is accepted into the institution after graduation and assigned to a department. However, his IT credentials are still very far-reaching, as he has been used in his internship in various departments of the institution. He will continue to be able to access information from the Human Resources Department, although this is not required for the performance of his new duties.
* In a billing department, the billing system is replaced by the product of a new manufacturer. The administrators are being trained on the new billing system, but only on a general basis, not security. This does not make important security settings.
* An employee is retired. The information security policies and agreements signed in the course of its membership are considered to be known and valid. The employee is not explicitly referred to remaining secrecy obligations on his departure. Therefore, he uses the leisure time gained to exchange views on working life at Internet forums and at personal meetings with other people, revealing confidential information about the institution.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



