#G 2.129 Missing or inadequate regulations for VPN use
The computers and networks connected by virtual private networks (VPNs) can not generally be classified as trustworthy. This is especially true if the connected computers and networks are foreign networks and are not administered on their own. This category includes extranet VPNs, for example. Here, the own network is connected to networks of other companies, taking into account functional limitations and security requirements. Businesses and authorities can suffer a great deal of damage if security gaps in an external network via VPN affect their own network.

Extranet VPNs are often used in the automotive industry or in industries that require intensive collaboration between manufacturers and suppliers.

Due to missing or inadequate regulations for the use of VPN, the following security problems can arise among other things:

* A VPN should not grow organically. Rather, planning should be done before establishing a VPN access. Experience has shown that complex hardware and software scenarios, which are difficult to administrate, can emerge especially with the continuous expansion of VPN access. As a result, security settings may be incorrect, incompatible, or cancel each other out.


* Without a consistent and binding security concept, it is usually left to individual administrators and VPN users to make the security settings according to their own requirements. This can lead to inappropriate security settings, which prevent, for example, the connection or allow the establishment of unsecured connections. Since VPN-connected IT systems in many cases have the same access options as IT systems directly in the LAN, this may impair the security of the LAN.


* The security of a VPN is based on the interplay of the physical components (computers, network coupling elements), their connection structure (network distribution, connection topology) and the configurations of the respective software components. However, the regulations defined in the context of the VPN security concept and their implementation by appropriate configuration settings can only provide the required security if the actually installed system complies with the planned system. Often, however, arise, for. Due to lack of detailed information during the planning phase, subsequent changes in the physical structure. If the changes are not recorded, documented and analyzed for information security implications, the security of the associated computers and networks may be at risk.


* VPN users are usually on their own during use. If there are no dedicated rules for the use of VPN or if these are not known to the users, the users can unconsciously create security gaps.


* If data protection concerns regarding the transfer of personal data between the components of the VPN are not sufficiently taken into account, this can lead to legal breaches. Other data may also be required by law to impose certain security measures.




## Examples 
* Due to the lack of regulations on the use of VPN, a supplier received extensive access rights to the network and thus also access to confidential documents of a manufacturer. These came to the public, and it caused considerable financial damage to the manufacturer.
* A semiconductor manufacturer is connected to its suppliers by means of an extranet VPN. As a result of inadequate anti-virus measures by a supplier, malicious software entered the local corporate network of the semiconductor manufacturer via the VPN and caused massive disruptions.
* The administrator of a VPN's VPN only allowed encrypted connections using Triple DES, but a user did not configure encryption for the VPN client. Because of incompatible security settings, therefore, no connection could be established.
* When setting up the VPN in a company, an additional small ISDN system was installed due to unfavorable routing. Since this additional device was not included in the planning, it was avoided to consider it in the VPN security concept. As a consequence, for a long time with established VPN connection, it was now possible, for example, to access the device via the remote maintenance access secured with a standard password.




