#G 2.167 Missing or insufficient prior checking
If the processing of personal data entails special risks for the rights and freedoms of the persons affected, such as eg. the processing of special types of data (information on racial and ethnic origin, political opinion, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, health or sexual life) or is intended to address the identity of the person concerned, including his or her abilities Performance or behavior, prior checking must be carried out prior to commencement of processing (  4d Abs. 5BDSG). However, this does not apply if there is a legal obligation or consent of the person concerned or the collection, processing or use of the purpose of a contractual relationship or contractual relationship of trust with the data subject. In some national data protection laws, prior checking is generally required in all procedures for processing personal data by public authorities. The conditions for this can deviate from the regulations applicable at the federal level.

If a mandatory prior check is not carried out or only insufficiently carried out, there may be risks for the right of informational self-determination.



## Examples 
* If data processing systems that process personal data can be used by unauthorized persons, for example because they can gain access or access due to inadequate security measures and thereby gain knowledge of data, this can be particularly dangerous for the Rights and freedoms of those involved.
* The confidentiality and integrity of the data may be violated during processing or during a data transmission if it is not adequately protected (eg by encryption).
* Personal data processed on behalf of the contractor may be processed by the contractor far more widely than contractually regulated to the detriment of those concerned.
* Personal data may be processed by circumventing the purpose limitation and inadvertently linked with each other to the detriment of those concerned.




