#G 2.74 Inadequate order criteria for archives
Electronic archives can contain very large amounts of data. The storage and retrieval of individual data sets is based on order criteria, which are to be distinguished into index data of the document management system (DMS) and index data of the archive system.

Ordering criteria of the DMS serve to manage the context and contents together with the respective document. An unsuitable selection of context criteria would mean that archived documents would not be able to be re-searched, or only with great effort, or that the semantics of archived documents would not be clearly determinable. On the other hand, a large number of context criteria increase the administrative burden and reduce the performance of the document management system as the number of archived documents increases.

However, classification criteria of the archive system are more of a technical nature. They are used to identify individual raw data and to organize the storage of raw data on storage media. Your selection is usually determined not by the DMS, but by the structure of the archive server and the underlying storage architecture. An essential requirement is the uniqueness of the document identifier. Should this requirement be violated, d. h.wenn two documents receive the same document identifier, depending on the search method when fetching a wrong document can be returned to the DMS and there provided with a new document context. Although the document not found would be physically available, it would no longer be clearly assigned to a process in the DMS.

The audit security of the archiving process essentially refers to the clear identification of all managed documents as well as the verifiability of the link between document and context information.

Status: as of 2005



