#G 2.86 Dependence on an outsourcing or cloud service provider
If an institution uses the services of an outsourcing or cloud service provider, it always depends on the service provider concerned. This results in the following typical dangers:

* With outsourced business processes, the corresponding know-how is internally lost.
* Employees of the client leave the company or are transferred and take their know-how with them.


* IT systems and resources are left to the outsourcing service provider so that they no longer have complete control over them.
* The client and the contractor protect the protection requirements of the outsourced information differently, for example due to misunderstandings in communication or another safety culture. In this way, the security measures taken can then be inadequately or incorrectly stored.


Excessive dependence may also result in the following consequences, which must be considered:

* Insourcing is generally expensive and in extreme cases even impossible.
* A change of the service provider is generally difficult and can lead to existence-threatening situations (availability, costs).
* Changes in the framework conditions (for example changes in the ownership of the outsourcing or cloud service provider, changes in the legal situation, doubts about the reliability of the outsourcing or cloud service provider) may not be adequately addressed.


If the outsourcing or cloud service provider recognizes a great deal of customer dependence, the following problems may also arise:

* The service provider carries out drastic price increases.
* It comes to poor service quality.
* The threat to discontinue the service immediately is used as a means of pressure (for example, upon termination of the contract or in case of disputes).


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



