#G 2.132 Lack of consideration of business processes in patch and change management
In public authorities and companies, information security processes and security measures should be aligned with the business objectives and business processes of the institution. The changes made to IT systems by patch and change management can reduce the efficiency of individual security measures, thereby jeopardizing overall security. Unsuitable patches and changes can, among other things, impair the smooth running of business processes or even cause complete failure of the IT systems involved. Even a comprehensive test procedure can not completely exclude that a patch or a change in the later productive operation proves to be faulty in special constellations.

If, during the patching and modification process, the impact, category or priority of a Request for Change (RfC) in relation to the business processes is misjudged, the desired level of security may be reduced. Such misjudgments are predominantly the result of a lack of coordination between the IT managers and the responsible departments.

By importing changes and patches, security gaps can be closed, but unintentional damage can be done. For example, a faulty patch could result in a larger security gap or reduce the availability of an application or a business process.



## Examples 
* In a company in the financial sector, timely, but not distributed with the specialist departments distributing (rollout) of security patches always comes back to restrictions in the availability of a business-critical reporting application. As a result, an important reporting date at the supervisory authority can not be complied with and the company receives a cash consideration.
* A company develops and updates a new version of trading software for communicating with external partners. Since the server-side component is now much more extensive and needs to communicate with more clients, in the new version, the previously used SSL encryption has been omitted without this being communicated. As the trading partners have to contractually use the software, the communication that is important for the business processes is not encrypted.




