#G 2.71 Incorrect or inadequate planning of LDAP access to Novell eDirectory
The ldap accessibility to the directory service of eDirectory is a key feature of the software product. User access is via the LDAP v3 protocol, which is a widely used Internet standard. Operators who use eDirectory as an eBusiness platform usually provide their users with special clients. However, simple web browsers or email clients can also act as LDAP clients.

The LDAP interface is also suitable for network applications and their services to access the directory service. This access requires detailed planning, especially with regard to the eDirectory rights required for the sensible use of the applications.

The planning of the LDAP access thus depends essentially on the deployment scenario of the eDirectory. In principle, there are three different connection types for an LDAP client from the point of view of eDirectory:

* as [Public] object (Anonymous Bind): In this case, no authentication information is requested and the [Public] object always has the unrestricted browse right to the directory tree by default.
* as Proxy User (Proxy User Anonymous Bind): This configuration option can be used instead of the anonymous login. The proxy user must be configured accordingly on the eDirectory side.
* as NDS User (NDS User Bind): In this case, the user logs on to the directory service with his eDirectory rights. The corresponding user object must be created in eDirectory.


It must be considered in the planning whether and which data can be transmitted in clear text according to the organization's internal security guidelines. This applies to the use in the intranet as well as especially for the connection to the Internet.

This is z. B. whether user passwords can be transmitted in clear text and how consistently the use of SSL encryption is implemented. Thus, eDirectory supports two types of connection according to the standard LDAP v3:

* anonymous bind: without username and password,
* clear-text password bind: Username and plaintext password for authentication.


In addition, LDAP is supported over SSL. EDirectory must be configured to support the first two types of connections.

In addition, SSL is supported in two modes: one and two-way authentication. With two-way authentication, the required credentials, including the root certificate of the certification authority, must be generally accessible.

The variety of configuration options described above for LDAP access to the eDirectory directory service can quickly result in misconfigurations. Consequences of such misconfiguration could be:

* Incorrect assignment of access rights,
* unauthorized access to the eDirectory directory service,
*  veraging user passwords in plain text,
* Spying out unencrypted information,
* Error in LDAP access, especially for network-based applications, as well
* insufficient productivity of the whole system.


Status: as of 2005



