#G 2.113 Insufficient planning of network capacity when using VoIP
For the use of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) a data network is needed. In this case, already existing data networks to which the workstations and servers are connected or independent data networks can be used. However, one main argument in favor of switching from circuit-switched telephone solutions to VoIP is the lower maintenance costs of just one communication infrastructure when an existing data network is used.

For VoIP are so far very little experience, since this is a relatively new technology. If VoIP is to replace a circuit-switched telecommunications system, as a rule, it is not possible to fall back on the experience gained here. This concerns particularly the behavior of the VoIP TK plant with a large circle of users.

The providers of VoIP PBXs are trying to predict how many users can be managed with their product. These statements are not very meaningful if an existing data network is to be used. If a large amount of data from the workstation on, can be overloaded by the simultaneous use of VoIP, the network quickly. For circuit switched PBXs, the maximum number of ports to which telephones can be connected determines the number of users.

Depending on the configuration of the active network components, certain IP packets can preferably be forwarded in the event of an overload. If VoIP packets are forwarded preferentially in the event of a high network load, it may no longer be possible to work efficiently on the workstation computers. If all IP packets with the same priority are sent, the trouble-free use of VoIP can no longer be guaranteed.

Even if the existing network for the parallel use of VoIP and regular information was adequately dimensioned when switching to VoIP, this no longer has to be sufficient for future constellations. If new employees are hired, they must be able to work on their workstations via the data network as well as make calls via VoIP. Thus, the load of the network increases more and the free resources are used up faster.

Status: as of 2006



