#G 2.106 Disruption of business processes due to security incidents
Security incidents may be triggered by a singular incident or concatenation of unfortunate circumstances, and may interfere with the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information and IT systems , This then quickly has a negative effect on essential specialist tasks and business processes of the institution concerned. Even if not all public safety claims are made public, they can still have a negative impact on relationships with business partners and customers. It is not even the case that the most significant and far-reaching security incidents have been triggered by the largest security vulnerabilities. In many cases, the chaining of small causes has led to enormous damage.



## Examples 
* A computer problem meant that two US airlines could not start any aircraft for more than two hours at all US airports. The cause was a malfunction in a database called, which provides current information about the upcoming flights. As a result, hundreds of flights could not start, followed by massive delays, several thousand passengers were stuck.
* Lack of plausibility checks repeatedly lead to small errors in user input having a significant impact. For example, on the London Stock Exchange, the FTSE index collapsed by 200 points after a broker mistakenly put a zero too high on an order. Instead, a hotel chain forgot a zero when entering the quotation database, which meant that luxury apartments in the South Pacific were offered for one-tenth of the actual price.
* After a failed software update, the network was no longer available for a major company for more than 16 hours. As a result, 5000 employees were unable to carry out their normal duties and 1700 customer inquiries were not processed. Important appointments could not be kept. In addition to the already high administrative burden, there were an additional 6000 requests for user support.




