#G 2.76 Insufficient documentation of archive accesses
As with other IT systems, archive systems can also be tampered with if they are poorly protected. Users could try to put fake documents into the archive and assign these documents to existing administrative procedures or complete completely new processes by specifying appropriate contextual information. System administrators may be tampering with the archive system and hiding manipulation by altering log files.

Usually, log files are given a lower value than the documents themselves. This often results in lower retention periods for log files and less careful handling of log files.

If archived documents are to be incorporated into later administrative processes, it is indispensable to be able to prove their authenticity, ie to distinguish correct from manipulated documents and to be able to document the document history in the case of controversial documents , This is endangered by

* Insufficient logging of archive accesses, especially the storage processes,
* Insufficient protection of log data from user manipulation and system administrators
* the loss of log data,
* too short retention periods of the log data.


If the documents to be archived are classified according to confidentiality levels, it must always be comprehensible who at what time inspected documents. This is no longer guaranteed if read accesses and search queries are not documented.



## Examples 
* As part of an archive search, a document is found that burdens a person in a certain way in a running administrative process. Based on the cached context information, the document is evaluated as authentic. However, the document was produced by an unauthorized person who deliberately provided incorrect contextual information (including the author of the document and date of creation) in order to be able to incriminate the person in question. Since the log files of the archive accesses have been deleted in the meantime, this can no longer be recognized. The affected employee will be charged for this.
* A user with administrative privileges manipulates files in the cache area of ??the archive system before storing them on persistent media. The manipulation is incomprehensible because the user manipulated the archive system by manipulating both the data itself and the log files.




