#G 2.182 Lack of or insufficient operator concept for storage solutions
The planning, procurement and operation of storage solutions in terms of their sizing and the requirements for availability and performance are becoming increasingly complex for institutions and are very demanding. This requires that at a strategic level the operating mode of a storage solution must be planned and determined.

In this case, both different types of operating mode (eg operation by own personnel or operation by third parties without the transfer of operational responsibility) as well as the possibility of accommodating the storage solution in their own rooms or to differentiate with a service provider.

If there are no regulations on the specified operating mode, for example in the form of an operator concept, this can lead to far-reaching disruptions in the operation, which can indirectly affect the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the stored data. Unclear responsibilities in the event of system failure are just one example of possible problems.

The operation of a storage solution is usually based on the creation of a service catalog, with the help of offered services or fixed service agreements, so-called Service Level Agreements (SLAs) or Operational Level Agreements (OLAs) for internal customers are described.

A lack of a service catalog entails considerable disadvantages both for the provider of a storage solution and for the user since agreements made can not be reconstructed and uncertainty arises regarding the rights and obligations. If it is not clear which criteria a service usually has to meet, the quality of service can not be measured and service provision can not be guaranteed.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



