#G 2.194 Poor requirement management in cloud usage
The decision of an institution to use cloud services usually involves a multitude of expectations. For example, users expect higher performance, greater functionality and / or lower costs.

Lack of requirements management in the use of cloud services can lead to the achievement of the set goals and the service can not provide the desired and needed added value.

As a rule, requirements management is not driven by IT but by management. The IT must subsequently record the requirements and translate them into the services that are required to fulfill the requirements.

For example, poor requirements management can take the following forms:

* The requirements for the cloud service are unclear. The reasons for this can lie in the fact that no requirement analysis was carried out, but also that it was decided not to create a specification. This lacks the service description for cloud services provided in the institution as IT service.
* The requirements for cloud services are less well defined or defined than is the case in classical situations. As a result, key features of a service may become unavailable after switching to cloud usage, application access times may increase, or orders may be running versus classic IT solutions delayed.
* The requirements for the IT infrastructure caused by the use of cloud services are not sufficiently considered.
* There are no specifications regarding the required performance of the network and Internet connection.
* The possibly necessary expansion of data networks or other infrastructure areas (eg firewalls, intrusion prevention systems or load balancers) is not planned.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



