#G 2.79 Insufficient renewal of digital signatures during archiving
The algorithms and key sequences used in digital signatures must be periodically adapted to the state of the art in order to ensure their protective effect (see G4.47 Obsolescence of cryptographic methods). This means that the cryptographic keys used and the associated certificates have only a limited amount of reliable validity. Measured by the archiving time required, these are relatively short periods of time. In order to preserve the authenticity of digital signatures, the electronic signature of each individual document must therefore be renewed in good time.

Regular re-signing of archived documents may be possible. The following security issues occur:

* If documents with a previously invalid or missing electronic signature are mistakenly given a valid new signature, these documents can subsequently be considered as authentic by mistake.


* It could happen that documents are forgotten at a new signature, d. h.Not received a new valid signature, even though they were previously signed. As a result, the authenticity or integrity of the document in question may no longer be demonstrated from now on, if no alternative evidence is available based on other characteristics.


* At the time of the re-signature, the underlying cryptographic method might already have been compromised or the original signature key may have become known (eg, as determined by massive computational effort). As a result, unauthorized persons could generate documents and provide them with a technically valid signature, possibly also with any time signatures (time stamp). If these documents are successfully put into the process of re-signing, these documents can be mistakenly regarded as authentic.


Status: as of 2005



