#G 2.157 Poor selection or design of web applications
As a rule, a web application uses a distributed, complex system consisting of different components (eg web server, application server, background systems) and related interfaces. Often, these are integrated into an existing infrastructure, while protecting the data across all components and interfaces.

Custom web applications are typically designed based on frameworks that provide basic functionality and must be configured or secured for specific applications. As part of the concept, frameworks, components and interfaces are to be selected and their integration and safeguarding considered.

In contrast, when designing web applications based on standard software (eg content management systems), particular attention must be paid to the selection of the software and the configuration of the subcomponents. In this context, standard software includes both Free / Libre Open Source Software (FOSS / FLOSS) and commercial software.

Regardless of whether the web application is implemented as individual development or standard software, inadequate consideration of its complexity (eg of frameworks, components and interfaces) in the selection and design of web applications can protect the data hurdles.

Fundamental mistakes in the planning phase can lead to weaknesses that may not be remedied, or can only be remedied by costly rework.

Examples:



## Examples 
* The deployment environment does not meet the minimum web application requirements for the hardware and software. Thus, the integration into the existing infrastructure (eg connection to a database or an identity memory) is not possible.
* The selected product does not have sufficient security functionality to protect sensitive data from unauthorized access. Therefore, the necessary protection mechanisms must be added later. If the product can not be extended with protection mechanisms, the protection must be implemented perimetrically (eg Web Application Firewall). This results in additional expenses.




