#G 2.135 Poor communication during patch and change management
The people involved in patch and change management should regularly exchange views as part of the change process in order, among other things, to agree on the category and priority of a change request, and to provide an appropriate time for the distribution (rollout) of a change request To find change.

If the people involved in patch and change management communicate poorly, or if patch and change management within the institution is poorly accepted, then this can

* that change requests are processed with delay, or
* Falschthe decision to accept a change request is made incorrectly.


Along with this, the level of security can be reduced and it can further lead to serious malfunctions in the IT operation. In any case, in the case of poor communication, the patching and modification process becomes inefficient, as it is often done with too much time and resources.

An inefficient patching and change process has a negative impact on the institution's ability to respond and, in extreme cases, can lead to security gaps or failures to achieve key business goals.



## Examples 
* In one company, the importance and approach of patch and change management for the institution was not adequately explained to the departments involved, such as the implementing IT department and the contracting departments. As a result, requests to departments for pending changes were slow to respond. In addition, there was too little time and human resources available to IT management to plan and execute a patch or change. As a result of these shortcomings, it was always possible for errors to creep in when implementing changes that caused various security gaps.




