#G 2.152 Lack of or insufficient planning of DNS use
If the planning of the DNS deployment is neglected, this can lead to problems and security gaps during operation. Many network services and applications require DNS to work. Thus, DNS is needed by communication partners to find out the IP address that the recipient's email server has. If the DNS servers can not be reached, these services can not be used, or can only be used to a limited extent. In the worst case, a security gap caused by poor scheduling can compromise DNS servers.



## Examples 
* Incorrect arrangement of DNS servers: When registering a domain name, at least two servers are usually specified, which are used as advertising DNS servers (see M 2.450 Introduction to basic DNS terms) for this domain. If these two Advertising DNS servers are located within the same network segment, the failure of the gateway to connect this segment to the rest of the network may result in the name resolution of the entire domain failing. Ultimately, this means that services such as web servers, e-mail but also remote administration accesses can no longer be accessed.
* Long response times: If the performance capacity of advertising or resolving DNS servers or the bandwidth of the network is not adequately dimensioned, this often leads to long response times or time-outs. If there is no prioritization of network traffic, it may happen that less important and non-time-critical network traffic will stress the bandwidth too much.
* Removal: The more network components between a DNS server and the requesting hosts, the more often the packets must be processed. This increases the response time and the network is unnecessarily burdened.




