#G 2.173 Inadmissible automated individual decisions or requests for the processing of personal data
No one may be subjected to an automated decision that results in or negatively affects him or her. The condition of this prohibition is that the decision is based exclusively on the automated processing of personal data, which serves to evaluate individual characteristics of a person. The prohibition does not apply if the request of the person concerned has been granted. An exception also applies if the person concerned has been informed about the automated case-by-case decision and his / her protective interests are ensured by appropriate measures. This includes the possibility of asserting its point of view. The responsible body is then obliged to re-examine its decision.

In any case, the data subject must be informed about the processing of his data, which is the basis for the automated case-by-case decision, the purpose and the categories of the recipients. In order to be able to assert its position, it must also be informed about the consequences of the processing and about the functioning of the specific procedure (logical structure).



## Examples 
* A job uses a scoring system to predict a person's professional performance, creditworthiness, reliability or future behavior. Irrespective of the outcome of the procedure, the responsible body has information obligations to the person concerned. If these are neglected, it will violate applicable laws.
* If the scoring system satisfies a detrimental decision for the data subject, the data-processing body must take appropriate measures to ensure that the legitimate interests of the data subject are preserved. This requires not only transparency vis-à-vis the person concerned, but also, in particular, the possibility of asserting his point of view vis-à-vis the body so that the decision is subject to a new review. If the interests of the person concerned are violated or if they are not checked again, the data subject can turn to the responsible data protection supervisor.




