#G 2.107 Inefficient use of resources due to inadequate safety management
Information security is a prerequisite for ensuring that all business processes and processes in an institution function properly. At the same time, however, due to the diversity of this topic, absolute information security is virtually unattainable. For this reason, it is essential to set the right priorities in security management and to invest in those areas that bring the greatest added value to the institution. This is a decision that can only be made with the help of cross-institutional security management.

Security management sets out the institution's actual security requirements and considers the risks of non-compliance. On this basis, it must be decided whether

* Resources are invested in protective measures,
* restructuring or relocation of tasks reduces the cost of protection to an acceptable level,
* Risks are accepted.


These considerations are fundamental to the approach to information security and must be documented in appropriate documentation. Lack of or insufficient security management can lead to the following errors:

* Often invested in expensive security solutions, without a base of necessary organizational arrangements is available. Unclassified responsibilities and responsibilities can lead to severe security incidents despite expensive investments. Practical Incident: A company has purchased an expensive firewall, but its administrators are under-trained and responsibilities are not clearly assigned. As a result, the firewall was not configured securely and configured to meet the security needs of the organization. There were security incidents, as services were repeatedly activated by different administrators and certain functionalities remained largely unused.
* It is common practice to invest in the areas of an information security institution that has the resources and awareness of its information security officers. Other areas, which may be more important for the performance of the tasks and the achievement of the business objectives, are neglected due to scarce resources or disinterestedness of those responsible. Practical incident: In order to increase the availability of the accounting application, an expensive cluster system was purchased. The applications required for customer service, on the other hand, still run on an old server that could fail at any time due to tight financial resources in the area. The availability of the customer service application is very important to the company, but has not been taken into account due to the lack of prioritization in the allocation of funds.
* When investing in individual areas, it is necessary to consider the entire security concept. Practical event: A department is being equipped with a new security solution. However, the power supply continues to be poorly secured with an old and long untested UPS. In the overall system, this still leaves considerable security gaps.
* The one-sided increase in the protection of individual basic values ??may reduce the overall protection. Practical Incident: Using a high-quality encryption routine in billing will seriously affect the speed of work processes. The selection did not take into account that the availability of the systems is at least as important as their confidentiality.
* An inhomogeneous and uncoordinated use of IT products can lead to high financial and human resources. Practical Incident: In a large company, several areas were independently engaged in information security. It turned out that two areas had each independently purchased company licenses from a virus search program. In addition, various encryption products were found throughout the company for the same purpose. This led to problems with the administration and an increased error proneness.


Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



