#G 2.109 Lack of or insufficient planning of storage solution
The operation of memory solutions requires careful planning, installation and configuration to ensure trouble-free operation. Possible dangers due to lack of or insufficient planning can be expressed in the following aspects:

* The requirements of an institution with regard to the required storage space, sufficient performance and the availability of storage solutions are constantly increasing. Inadequate dimensioning of the storage solution used can not always meet these growing requirements. Example: Depending on the application requirement, the provided I / O performance on the disks is a limiting factor for the overall system.
* The reasons for insufficient dimensioning when planning storage solutions are usually a missing actual analysis. The missing or inadequate trend analysis or prognosis with regard to future developments within one's own IT network may also contribute to the use of incorrectly dimensioned storage solutions.
* In virtual storage environments, thin provisioning can provide a cost-effective way to provide storage capacity. Thin Provisioning takes advantage of the fact that modern storage solutions provide virtual disks that appear to be larger in capacity than physically available. If the capacity used by the server exceeds a certain threshold value, free capacity for the customer is additionally made available from an existing storage pool. If the threshold is too low due to insufficient planning or if it is exceeded by many customers within a short period of time, this can lead to an overbooking of the total available storage capacity.
* A wrongly chosen SAN design can be a source of danger to the institution as a result of a lack of or insufficient planning of the storage solution. Missing SAN ports, poor line capacity due to excessive attenuation, missing inter-switch link (ISL) links, and insufficient load sharing on the SAN switches can prevent smooth operation, such as breach of contractual agreements and regulations thus bring financial harm with it.
* In the case of the need to build and operate a high-availability storage solution, the main focus should be on careful and detailed planning. The primary objective is the avoidance of so-called Single Points of Failure (SPOF), ie the dependency of a redundant infrastructure on the function of a single component.
* The demands of an application on its performance as well as the interoperability requirements with regard to the existing hardware and software can force the use of certain products. If these aspects are not taken into account in a timely manner, this can result in costly and inefficient corrections during implementation, delays in use, or significant operational disruptions.
* The lack of multi-client capability of the selected storage solution may also pose a threat to the institution. Today IT is a service provider in many institutions and provides storage space for (internal) customers. In particular, there is also the need to take account of the different protection requirements for the data to be stored by these (internal) customers, that is, for example, for individual company divisions.
* A missing or inadequate safety concept as well as the missing or inadequate documentation can also be the result of a lack of planning.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



