#G 2.159 Inadequate protection of personal data in web applications and web services
The user behavior when operating an application can be recorded by the so-called user tracking (usually without explicit consent of the user). Since often the operator of the web application or the web services used by the application does not perform the data evaluation, but rather integrates these as a service, the collected data is generally stored on third-party systems. From the recorded data, user profiles can be used to create profiles that are not compliant with the privacy policy. There is a risk of violating legal regulations.

The following are examples of the unauthorized collection of personal information:

* Detailed information about page views and inputs to web applications and web services is assigned to users (for example, through cookies) and logged over a longer period of time. Based on this data collection, personal profiles can be created by the users of the web application or the web service without their knowledge and, for example, used without authorization for advertising purposes.


* The web pages of the web application embed images from external servers and thus load them from the users' clients. Based on the requested images, the operators of the foreign servers can retrieve retrieval statistics via the web application web pages. In addition, if IP addresses are logged on the external server, IP addresses (and thus possibly users) can be assigned to the web page invocations. In addition, the third-party server can use cookies (third party cookies) to track the behavior of the user in detail.


* The web application's HTML pages contain JavaScript code that contains instructions for collecting data about the client (for example, installed plug-ins, graphical resolution). When the website is called, these instructions are executed unnoticed by the client. The collected data can thus be used without the knowledge and consent of the user as identification features for the creation of user profiles.


* Although personal data is legally collected from the web application or the web service, it is not stored appropriately so that it can be read by third parties without authorization.


* A web service transmits personal data to the calling application or to other web services with unsecured plain-text protocols via insecure networks.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



