#G 2.84 Inadmissible contractual arrangements with an external service provider
If situations occur that are not clearly regulated by contract, disadvantages may arise for the client (for example in the context of an outsourcing or cloud computing project).

For example, in the case of outsourcing or use of cloud services, the client may be held responsible, although these are within the sphere of influence of the service provider but are not clearly regulated by contract.

One main reason for problems between the contractors is too optimistic cost estimates. If it turns out that the service provider can not provide the service at the calculated and offered costs or there is disagreement about it, which is self-evident, this can directly lead to security problems. According to experience, information security is saved if cost pressures arise in other areas, which can be counteracted without consequences becoming immediately visible. It is therefore of crucial importance how the contractual arrangements between the client and the contractor are designed. Only what has been contractually fixed from the beginning will surely be put into action later!

Cloud service providers and outsourcing service providers often provide their services through third party services. If there are insufficient contractual agreements, this can also have an impact on service provision. Failure to comply with contractual obligations between service providers and third parties may result in a lack of transparency of the service provider's operations and uncertainties in areas of responsibility or compliance with agreed services.

Further examples of consequences of inadmissible contractual arrangements with external service providers are:

* The client can not fulfill his obligation to provide information to supervisory authorities or auditors if the service provider does not grant access to his premises or access to the necessary documents.


* The client must be responsible for violations of applicable laws if the service provider has not been obliged to comply with these laws.


* Tasks, performance parameters and efforts were described in an inadequate or misleading way, so that safety measures are not implemented due to ignorance or lack of resources.


* The client can not meet new requirements (for example technical, legal regulations, availability, technical development) if change management and system adjustments have not been sufficiently regulated by contract.


* In the case of outsourcing projects, the client's management or company management may be fully responsible for the outsourced business areas, but this responsibility can not be met because of the lack of control options.


* Outsourced data or systems are under-protected if their need for protection or, better, the resulting security requirements are unknown to the outsourcing service provider.


* The quality of service is poor and there are no opportunities to intervene because no sanctions have been contracted.


* The service provider withdraws qualified personnel or representatives of the permanent staff are not sufficiently prepared, which can lead to security problems.


Special problems often occur when service contracts are terminated (see G 2.85 Insufficient regulations for the end of an outsourcing or cloud use project) and this situation has not been sufficiently regulated by contract.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



