#G 2.176 Lack of communication between cloud service providers and cloud users
The use of cloud services requires comprehensive communication between cloud service providers and cloud users. The fact that the cloud user obtains an external service and, if necessary, outsourced related security management activities requires close coordination between the two parties.

A lack of communication with the cloud user can occur in different phases and processes and have different negative effects, as the following examples show.



## Examples 
* Lack of communication during planning and commissioningIn particular in the planning and commissioning of cloud services, lack of communication and coordination between the parties involved can have a very strong negative impact on the provision of services. If the various requirements are not communicated and taken into account in this phase, this will lead to a variety of problems as the service is provided. This can result in considerable additional costs on both sides, for example due to changes to the contract, additional security measures, additional audits or possibly even legal consequences.
* Lack of Communication on Compliance If service can not be provided to cloud users due to a lack of communication or undefined communication interfaces, the correct provision of services in the event of discrepancies can not be established beyond reasonable doubt and invoicing will be suspended hrdet. Poor or un-communicated metrics related to the Services may cause the Cloud Service Provider to undervalue or under-fulfill the agreed upon requirements. Thus, inefficient resource allocation may go unnoticed by both the cloud user and the cloud service provider.
* Lack of Communication in Security Incident Management Due to inadequate communication in the context of incident management or security incident management, interfaces may not be known or contact persons outside of operating hours may not be reachable. This may result in considerable delays in the processing of faults and prefetches.




