#G 2.189 Lack of or insufficient strategy for cloud usage
The decision to use cloud services in an institution is a strategic decision. Through this, an institution enters into a close relationship with the cloud service provider.

Misconceptions about the cloud usage strategy can result in organizational, technical, or even serious financial implications, which can sometimes be long-term and severe.

Due to an insufficient or incorrect cloud usage strategy, the following effects can be observed in practice:

* There are widespread misconceptions about the introduction and management of cloud usage. The effort required for the secure introduction of a cloud service (for example, the preparation of documentation, tests, system security) is often underestimated. The resulting delays often lead institutions to reduce their planned test effort, which can lead to compromises in terms of safety.
* It creates a dependency on cloud service providers, which subsequently exposes the institution to the risk of inappropriate price increases or declining service quality.
* The use of cloud services runs the risk that the use ofIT can no longer be properly controlled (loss of governance). Possible causes for this are unclear service, process or interface definitions.
* If neither a later change to another cloud service provider nor the return from the cloud service provider to your own IT account is taken into account during planning, this can lead to high costs.
* Inadequate data deletion planning when terminating the use of a cloud service carries the risk of unauthorized access to the data.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



