#G 2.101 Inadequate emergency preparedness at a security gateway
Inadequate scheduling for accidents can significantly aggravate problems associated with running a security gateway and increase downtime.

In addition to general errors that are often made in the area of ??emergency preparedness, some security gateways can make some specific mistakes that can make a quick response to incidents very difficult or even impossible. Some of these errors are described below.

* If there are no plans for dealing with emergencies and no corresponding instructions, an efficient response is generally not possible at all. Complex systems, such as multi-level security gateways, may experience additional issues if interdependencies between components are unknown or undocumented, or if they are not properly accounted for during planning.
* If no replacement parts or devices are available for important hardware components, and no agreements have been made with the manufacturers or suppliers (for example, service level agreements or on-site exchanges within a guaranteed period of time), this may be the case lead to significant downtime and costs.
* If there is no or only insufficient documentation of the configuration and the most important operating parameters, it can be very difficult to re-establish a working configuration after an emergency. Bad documentation can also lead to configuration errors not being detected at first, and troublesome troubleshooting when problems occur.
* If the tools and programs required for a fault diagnosis are not available or the administrators are unable to use them correctly, this can lead to considerable delays.
* Failure to capture important data during logging may make it difficult or impossible to correctly assess the nature and severity of an incident.
* When recovering from an emergency, it may be desirable to restore an older configuration. If no version control is performed for the configuration data (in particular the packet filter rules), this can be difficult or even impossible.


Status: as of 2005



