#G 2.141 Unrecognized security incidents
The daily IT operation of a public authority or a company can lead to a high number of faults and faults. There is a risk that security incidents will not be identified by the staff as such and an attack or attack attempt will go undetected. Even though the users and administrators are sufficiently sensitized or trained for the interests of information security, they may not recognize security incidents.

Examples of this are:

* The impairment of the capacity of the Internet connection is pushed to the lack of performance of the Internet service provider, without carrying out an accurate traffic analysis. The real cause of the capacity losses, however, is a compromised server in the LAN, which is used as an illegal file server and thereby consumes bandwidth.
* When logging on to an IT application, a user gets the indication that the last time he logged in on Sunday morning, even though he did not work at the weekend. The user does not suspect and does not report this incident to the security officer. This hides the fact that an attacker has detected access to the user's profile or password.
* A notebook user who has not been logged in to his company or agency's local network for a long time has been experiencing a week's extreme slowdown in his laptop during normal Internet access and does not notice that a Trojan horse is active. He was not trained to inform the security officer in case of suspicious incidents.
* A business traveler does not notice that the data of his notebook were secretly spied out during a stay abroad. He does not suspect when his notebook has disappeared in his hotel room for a short time and suddenly reappears.
* A burglary in a store is thought to be a case of procurement crime as notebooks and flat screens have been stolen. The fact that the notebooks contained confidential information and access data for systems on the intranet is of no importance and the security officer is not informed. The company is therefore unprepared for subsequent attacks on the IT systems of other locations and the company headquarters. For the planning and execution of the attack, the data found on the stolen notebooks are used.


Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



