#G 3.109 Improper handling of FileVault encryption
In Mac OS X, user directories can be encrypted using the FileVault program. The algorithm AES-128 is used. Users can only access the FileVault encrypted data with a correct password. The password should therefore be strong enough.

Passwords can be forgotten or unavailable in a substitution case.

In this case, to be able to read the data anyway, the main FileVault password is provided. The locally specified main FileVault password allows you to decrypt each user folder of the associated IT system or reset the associated password. However, keeping the main FileVault password in an insecure location may allow unauthorized access to the encrypted information.

If both the user password and the main FileVault password are lost, for example due to a fire or theft, it will be permanently inaccessible to access the FileVault encrypted data. The main FileVault password is protected with a weaker algorithm (RSA-1024), so it is exposed to a higher risk than the user passwords.

With FileVault, it is not possible to encrypt the entire hard disk. Thus, an attacker who has physical access to the hard disk or a user account can access sensitive configuration files or folders. These include, for example:

* Log files in / Library / Logs and / var / log,
* Cache and temporary files in / Library / Caches and / tmp,
* system-wide settings in / Library / Preferences,
* own source code in / developer or
* Any additional programs that have been stored outside of the user folder.


Unauthorized persons could gain access to the information even if users can log on to the client without authentication (automatic login). The information protected by FileVault will then be decrypted without password prompting when the computer starts up.

Another problem can come from the Time Machine program. Time Machine serves as a backup for Mac OS X and can produce copies of entire hard disks, individual directories, or FileVault encrypted user folders. However, the information is always stored unencrypted on the backup medium, the type of medium does not matter. Care must be taken that the backup media are stored in a location to which unauthorized persons have no access.

It should also be noted that a backup with Time Machine can only be performed with FileVault enabled after the user has logged off the system. If the client is locked in Mac OS X or is in hibernation, no backups can be performed.

Examples:

* In a company, the user folders are basically encrypted with FileVault. Since employees expect FileVault's data to be sufficiently protected, they ask the responsible administrator to enable automatic logon to the system to save time. The administrator is also mistaken that the information is still protected by FileVault. By enabling automatic login to the system, the user folder protected by FileVault is decrypted and unauthorized persons can access the information.
* In a company FileVault is used for encryption and Time Machine for data backup. Employees do not turn off the computer during their lunch break or in the evening, but only put it to sleep. After several days of work on the system without switching off temporarily, a hardware error occurs which leads to a loss of data. Because the computer was never turned off, FileVault did not allow Time Machine to back up. The work from the days since the last backup is lost.
* On a client running Mac OS X, the user folders are encrypted with FileVault to provide adequate levels of protection. The subsequent backup is stored with Time Machine on a remote server. However, the copied information can be viewed by anyone with access to the directory because Time Machine stored the information in an uncoded format. Another problem arises when the data carrier is lost because the information is stored on the disk without encryption.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



