#G 3.113 Incorrect configuration of a Lotus Notes client or a foreign client with access to Lotus Domino
For the considered Lotus Domino versions 8.x various client components can be used. These include the Lotus Notes clients (Standard Client, Basic Client, Developer Client and Administrative Client), Browser (via iNotes), special clients for PDAs (and other mobile devices) and external email clients with Domino access via POP3 and / or IMAP interfaces. Incorrect configuration of a client component can affect the availability, confidentiality, or integrity of Lotus Notes / Domino platform data and enable successful attacks on the platform.

Both Lotus Notes Fat Clients versions 8.x or later are more complex than the previous versions. The Standard Client inherits the complexity of the Eclipse framework, and the Basic Client is impacted by the increasing complexity of Lotus Notes services. This increases the likelihood of faulty configurations.

Some typical faulty configurations of a Lotus Notes client are listed below:

* Missing or inadequate client-side encryption of Lotus Notes client confidential information (such as the Notes ID) and client-side databases (including replicas): This prevents loss of or theft of an end device with a Lotus Notes client To access confidential data, either the terminal or at least the confidential information (including the ID and existing certificates) present on the Notes client must be sufficiently encrypted.
* Incorrect client-side settings for replication. B. server side data are deleted, which are only extensively recoverable at the later discovery of L schvorgangs.
* Incorrect client-side e-mail recall settings: These settings must be consistent with the institution's policy on how to handle e-mail retrieval in the context of e-mail liability.
* Incorrectly configured Execution Control List (ECL): The active content that can be executed in a Lotus Notes client and the permissions assigned to it are controlled via the Execution Control List (ECL). If the ECL is misconfigured, the active contents can also be used to attack the Lotus Notes client. With incorrectly configured ECL, active contents could be used, for example: access to local data stores of the client computer (databases, files, etc.) and data could be stolen, on which clients local data could be changed or deleted and harmful programs, such as computer viruses or Trojan horses, are installed.
* Extensive access to the configuration settings of the Lotus Notes client by the users: The configuration settings of a Lotus Notes client can have a significant impact on the security of the client (as well as the Lotus Notes / Domino platform). Therefore, it is dangerous for users to be able to change client security-related configurations.


The listed problem areas are examples of possible dangers due to client-side misconfigurations. Depending on the particular operating environment, further dangers may be added.

Also when using browsers as Notes clients (via iNotes or the Domino web server) and for special clients for PDAs and comparable mobile terminals as well as when using third-party e-mail clients via POP3 and / or IMAP Interfaces can lead to security problems when configured incorrectly. This depends on the configuration settings of the used browser or the foreign clients and kannz. For example, the execution of active content in the browser or client or communication to the Domino server.

Example:

From a stolen laptop without disk encryption using the Lotus Notes Client, emails of confidential content are copied from the unlocked local replica of the email database, and their content is leaked to competitors or the press.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



