#G 3.103 Bad domain information
Even if the planning of the use of the DNA has been carried out carefully and thus all safety-relevant points have been taken into account, that is not sufficient if incorrect domain information is created. Erroneous means that semantic and / or syntactic errors were committed when creating the domain information. For example, if a hostname has been assigned an incorrect IP address, data is missing or unauthorized characters have been used. If domain information contains errors, services that use this information will only be limited due to the misinformation. Here are some examples of common mistakes:

* For the forward and backward dissolutions, the data is maintained in a separate database. One of the most common mistakes is that new added domain information is added to the front-end data. However, it is forgotten to incorporate the domain information in the data of the Rückw rtsaufl sung.
* Multi-homed hosts, such as routers, have a network connection to several network segments and thus multiple IP addresses. If in a multi-homed host it is forgotten to enter the corresponding PTR records (short form for pointers) into the domain information for all IP addresses, an R will be entered for IP addresses without PTR records Reverse resolution fails. Services that require backward resolutions are thus disrupted.
* Using unauthorized characters in domain names causes information to be misinterpreted or misinterpreted. Allowed characters are ASCII letters, numbers, and the hyphen. Even names that are valid in the DNS namespace can be interpreted differently by applications. For example, 0xe is a valid hostname. If you try to connect to this host via telnet 0xe, Telnet will interpret 0xe as IP address. There will be no name resolution, and if 0.0.0.14 is not the correct IP address, the connection will fail.
* Domain information must include serial numbers that also indicate the date when the zone was last updated. Writing the date as a decimal may result in unexpected results, as these are internally converted into an integer by DNS servers.
* Resolving DNS servers and resolvers on pure client IT systems typically cache received response data. This reduces the number of queries required by the parent DNS server. Caching time is referred to as Time to Live (TTL) and is part of the domain information. Too long TTL times, especially for domain information that frequently changes, causes the cached data to become stale are. On the other hand, too short a TTL increases the burden on DNS servers.
* Glue records are necessary in certain cases to find the DNS servers in charge. Normally, a DNS server stores only the domain names of the DNS servers of its subdomains. If a DNS server of such a subdomain is located within its own subdomain, the DNS server above must also have its IP address saved, otherwise no DNS server would be able to perform a name resolution lead. This entry is called a glue record. It may happen that when migrating or decommissioning DNS servers, they forget to adapt or delete the associated glue records. Then, when requests are made, data about lost DNS servers is returned.
* DNS offers the possibility to define aliases. An alias is a freely chosen name that is usually easy to remember. An example of a commonly used alias on DNS is www for the web server. An alias may not be assigned any other data. For example, it is not allowed to define an IP address for an alias. Another mistake about aliases is to delete a host, but not the associated alias.
* Because domain information is important data, it is typically provided by at least two DNS servers, the primary DNS server, and one or more secondary DNS servers. The data is maintained on the Primary DNS server and synchronized to the Secondary DNS server (s). DNS servers use the serial numbers in the domain information as an indicator of whether there have been any changes. If domain information is changed and the included serial number is not increased, the new domain information will not be synchronized. The resulting inconsistency will lead to different name resolutions, depending on which DNS server is being queried.


Domain information is stored in text files called master files. If these text files are edited manually, an unclear, heterogeneous structure is an additional source of error.

In addition to the addition of new information, especially the deletion, in the case of the removal of a host, is a major source of error. If not all domain information is deleted, information about defunct hosts will remain ,

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



