#G 3.28 Inappropriate configuration of the active network components
Inadequate configuration of active network components can lead to a loss of availability of subnets or even of the entire network. Furthermore, configuration errors may result in a loss of confidentiality and integrity of the transmitted information. In particular, the following misconfigurations can be distinguished:

* Active network components used to create virtualLANs (VLANs) logically segment the network. In case of a misconfiguration, the communication may possibly cease within a VLAN, between individual or between all VLANs. Example: A file server and a printer are in the same VLAN. Workstation systems are in a different VLAN. In order for the workstation systems to communicate with the file server or printer, a layer 3 device (router or multilayer switch) is required. If such a device is not present or configured incorrectly, the workstation systems can not access either file or printer services.


* A network can be structured by using routers through subnetworking. For communication between the subnets, a corresponding configuration of the routers is required, which must provide the routes between the various subnets in routing tables for this purpose. Routing tables can be managed statically or dynamically. In both cases, communication between different subnets is not possible if the routing tables do not contain a route between the subnets in question. A misconfiguration can result from an erroneous definition of static routing tables or from an incorrect configuration of the routing protocols (such as B.RIPoderOSPF) that are used to automatically reconcile dynamic routing tables. For example: A router-to-router Router connection is configured by a static entry of the corresponding IP addresses. If the IP address of one of the routers is changed or if another router is interposed, this communication link is no longer available.
* Active network components, if configured accordingly, can block certain protocols or prevent communication between IT systems with specific network addresses. A misconfiguration of the respective filters can lead to an unwanted interruption of the communication. Also, misconfigured filters can lead to connections that allow unauthorized persons to attack the IT systems to carry out a network. Depending on the type of attack, this may result in loss of availability of individual network components or even the entire network. Furthermore, data packets can be rerouted, changed or read when the connection paths are being manipulated. Example: Due to an inappropriate configuration of active network components (in particular of VLANs or filter rules), broadcast domains can become unnecessarily large or There may be unnecessary communication links. This may allow unauthorized persons to read confidential data.


Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



