#G 3.93 Wrong handling of defective data carriers
Damage, errors or failures can occur with all types of data carriers. Documents may have been smudged or torn, CDs may show bit errors, or a hard disk crash may have occurred. In particular, low-priced data carriers are often thrown away immediately and replaced by new ones. More expensive data carriers are given for repair. In both cases, however, care should not be taken, since under certain circumstances even the information stored on it can be reconstructed from almost destroyed data carriers. Depending on the damage, even with burned hard disks, professional data recovery companies can make the data readable again. It must therefore be assumed that in the case of careless disposal or rejection of defective data carriers, confidential data can be read out and reused.



## Examples 
* In a company, the managing director's laptop could no longer be started up. Since this still happened during the warranty period, he was sent to the manufacturer. After the successful repair, he was sent back by post but never arrived at the company. On the laptop were not only time-critical project plans, but also personal data and explosive internals.
* One agency had collected all of the discarded CDs for a long time and handed them over to a charitable organization for a good cause. This has used the CDs as a basis for handicrafts and the like. Among the donated CDs were many promotional supplements CDs, but also those with backups. As a result, Christmas trees in the city center later became CDs, under which the inscription Personalakte A-D, company ABC, was to be read confidentially under a Christmassy livery. Since the glittering data page had not been edited, this data could even be partially read without any effort.




