#G 3.46 Incorrect configuration of a Lotus Domino server
Misconfigurations of a software system are often the cause of successful attacks. Due to the complexity of a Lotus Domino server, there is also a risk here that the installed Lotus Notes / Domino environment will not meet the required security requirements due to misconfiguration. Due to the number of configuration settings and the parameters influencing each other, many dangers can also arise.

Incorrect configurations can occur both in the basic configuration of a Lotus Domino server and in the configuration of special services provided by the server. In addition count. For example, the Embedded Web Server (HTTP task) or the Domino Offline Services (DOLS) used for iNotesbzw.Domino Web Access. But the incorrect configuration of Domino's database service is also a problem for the overall security of the server.

Some typical misconfigurations are listed below:

* Missing Access Restrictions to a Server: By default, everyone is generally allowed to access a Lotus Domino server. If no access restrictions are defined on a server, this first one is not used. In particular, in combination with weak or incorrect access to services or databases security problems may arise.
* Incorrect access lists (Access Control Lists, ACLs) or insecure standard ACLs: Each database receives a default access list (defined by its database template) when it is created. Depending on the template, this does not provide sufficient protection for the database in normal operation. This is especially true if the database has to be initialized after generation or further configured. Often, this initially requires extensive rights that are no longer required for ongoing operation. Failure to change the default access lists may result in unauthorized access to the database or excessive rights for users.
* No encryption is used: the encryption of network communication (port encryption) and the encryption of databases or database fields are usually not activated by default. To use the encryption, this must be explicitly activated. If this is forgotten, the data is unprotected in both the communication and on the data carriers.
* Inadequate permissions for servers or administrative processes: For a Notes database to work properly, it must be maintained and maintained by a dedicated server. The administration and maintenance tasks of a server include updating database copies (data, access lists, etc.). If the responsible server does not have sufficient rights, the administrative actions will fail. This can lead to security problems that z. B. Changes to the access permissions can not be passed on to the copies of a database.
* Accepting cross certificates: Trust relationships can be entered between different certificate hierarchies (without a common certification authority) by means of so-called cross certification (recognition of third-party certificates). Cross certificates can usually be generated automatically when an unknown certificate is detected. This applies to Notes certificates as well as to X.509 certificates. Cross-certificates can also be generated by users simply in their personal local address book. The creation of cross certificates in the NAB (Notes Address Book), however, can only be done by an authorized administrator. Certificates are recklessly recognized as trustworthy, so this can lead to security problems, such. For example, active content signed with the now trusted certificate.


The listed problem areas are examples of possible dangers due to misconfiguration of a Lotus Domino server. Depending on the respective operating environment, more can be added.

Example:

A server is configured so that anonymous access is not allowed. Only SSL connections are allowed on the web interface. Therefore, the configuration of the database ACLs does not create an anonymous entry. Furthermore, forcing the SSL-protected web access is waived because the server accepts only SSL connections at the web interface. The default rights from the database templates have not been changed to minimize the administrative overhead of template changes. With the introduction of a new database containing public information, the server is configured to allow normal web access to this database (anonymous, not SSL protected). From now on, all server databases can be accessed anonymously; the default permissions, which often allow at least reading, apply. There is a risk that unauthorized persons can view confidential data or manipulate information.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



