#G 3.120 Error orchestrating
When different web services are combined to accomplish transversal tasks, this is called orchestration. Orchestration can be static by selecting and merging appropriate services based on WSDL andUDDI. In service-oriented architectures, however, orchestration can also be carried out dynamically, that is to say, for the tasks to be performed, suitable services are identified and selected only at runtime. In practice, dynamic orchestration is not common.

The orchestration or, in the case of dynamic orchestration, their implementation require special care to avoid errors of various kinds:

* Specialized tasks are mapped incorrectly or services are compiled incorrectly: The interaction of the individual services can result in a high level of complexity, which makes high demands on the planning of the orchestration. A lack of understanding of the task to be implemented, but also the functionality and interaction of the services involved, can lead to the orchestration not being performed correctly and the resulting functionality not meeting the requirements.


* Services or interfaces are described or implemented incorrectly: If the description of a service and its implementation deviate from each other, the result may be that a selected service does not fulfill its intended purpose or does not perform it adequately. This can, on the one hand, affect the depiction of functional functionality but also have an immediate impact on security if the selected service should perform a security function (for example, authorization).


* Transaction security is missing, or parallel processes have an unwanted impact: Web services are typically used by multiple applications or processes simultaneously. This fact must be taken into account in the orchestration. In particular, the web services involved need not make assumptions about the state of data or systems between two calls, or before and after calling another service.


* The need for protection is not sufficiently taken into consideration: When services are compiled in the context of orchestration, not only functional aspects but also the security level realized by the respective service must be taken into account (for example quality of authentication, encryption, but also authorization) gbarkeiten). Otherwise, there is a risk that services will be included in a specialist task that does not meet the protection requirements of this task. This aspect becomes particularly important when the orchestration includes services from different service providers.


Especially in complex scenarios with many cooperating services or with dynamic orchestration, there are often only limited possibilities to test services in their interplay, so that the errors described above may only be recognized during operation.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



