#G 3.98 Loss of BitLocker encrypted data
BitLocker Drive Encryption (BDE) is a program for encrypting partitions on volumes.

For the decryption of the Windows partition by BDE during the boot process of the operating system, the administrator can configure different authentication methods as well as combinations thereof:

* TPM usage without user authentication (requires a Trusted Platform Module, TPM) BDE starts in this configuration without any interaction by the user, who does not need to authenticate against BDE. The boot process is aborted only if access to the TPM is not possible (for example, if the TPM is disabled or defective).
* Authentication by means of a key on an USB stick There is a risk that the user loses the USB stick or the stick is defective. As a result, Windows does not start booting.
* Authentication by means of a PIN (requires the IT system TPM chip) There is a risk that the user forgets the PIN. Without entering the correct PIN, the operating system will not continue the boot process.
* Authentication via PIN and USB stick


If the TPM has been configured for use by BitLocker, Windows may cancel the startup of the IT system for a variety of reasons:

* If there are any changes to the BIOS of the motherboard
* If the TPM is damaged
* When the master boot record (MBR) of the hard disk has been modified
* When the old boot components of the operating system have been changed
* If other files monitored by BitLocker have been modified.


Changes to the BIOS occur, for example, as a result of a firmware update, files can be changed by software updates. The termination of the startup process in any case means that the user can not use the IT system. The data protected by BDE remain encrypted.

A numerical recovery password or a recovery key serves as protection for the cases described. This is in binary format, while the password can also be saved as a hardcopy. Supported digital locations for the recovery password and recovery key include Active Directory and files that can be stored either locally or on external drives such as USB flash drives.

In particular, if the recovery password is printed on paper or stored on a USB stick, there is a risk of unauthorized access and, as a result, a loss of confidentiality of the data encrypted by BitLocker.

Furthermore, there is a risk that the recovery password or recovery key will also be lost. In this case, the user can no longer use the IT system. The encrypted data remains permanently encrypted.

As a result, access to the data encrypted with EFS (Encrypting File System) may also be at risk if the EFS key has been stored in a partition encrypted by BDE.

Beginning with Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2, users without administrator privileges can encrypt critical data on internal and external drives through BitLocker To Go. For authentication, users can use any password or smart card of their choice by default. If BitLocker To Go is used, the data on the media for the institution will no longer be available if the creator of the encrypted volume forgets the password or refuses to disclose it.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



