#G 3.41 Misbehavior in the use of VPN services
Unknowing or (usually unconscious) misconduct may lead to security problems in the use of VPNs or in the context of VPN usage, for example, violations of security guidelines or security-related misconfigurations. This danger exists especially if the users are not sufficiently trained.

Often, stationary and mobile IT systems that have VPN client software installed are not only used to access a LAN. In particular, if the VPN connection is established via the Internet, the Internet and e-mail usage is often carried out via these IT systems. In some cases, foreign networks are accessed, for example, when field workers with mobile VPN clients set up special connections to customer networks. This may result in the following security issues:

* Due to the (attempted) setup of unauthorized connections, the system is unnecessarily burdened, as the admissibility of the connection has to be checked. This will use system resources. In combination with misconfigurations, unauthorized access can also be successful.


* VPN clients can be used, among other things, for Internet access. When connecting to the Internet without any special security measures, it may be possible to access the client computer from outside. An attacker could then try to disable data encryption, for example, or change other VPN configuration data so that VPN communication is no longer secure. Software downloaded from the Internet and stored on the VPN client may contain harmful code, such as viruses or Trojan horses.


* In foreign LANs, wiez. B.Kennennetzen or private home networks, often other connections to other networks, such as the Internet. If a VPN client logs on to such a network, depending on the security specifications of the LAN administration, the VPN client may possibly be accessed in an uncontrolled manner (see also G5.39 Intrusion into computer systems via communication cards).




## Examples 
* On a business trip, an employee connects to the corporate network via the Internet. Before the VPN connection is set up, it launches a executable file from a web server. In addition to the official functionality, the file also contains a harmful part of the program which attempts to influence the security mechanisms (eg switching off encryption) in the VPN configuration. As a result, unauthorized access to data in the company network can take place in the event of an existing VPN connection.




