#G 3.111 Insufficient separation of offline and online access to OpenLDAP
To access the data managed by OpenLDAP, ie objects in the directory service as well as configuration settings, there are various access possibilities, namely

* Via the LDAP protocol using the ldap * tools while the slapd server is running (also known as online access),
* direct access to the BerkeleyDB database files using the slap * tools of OpenLDAP, independent of the slapd server (also known as offline access),
* via database manipulation using Oracle's BerkeleyDB tools and
* through the direct manipulation of configuration files in the file system.


The various access options and tools fulfill completely or partially identical functions. If the accessibility options are mixed or the respective mode of operation is not understood, numerous error situations can occur.



## Examples 
* In an enterprise, the data sets stored by OpenLDAP are backed up offline in LDIF format using the slapcat tool. In the case of a backup, the administrator attempts to load the data backup using the ldapadd application into the empty database of a running OpenLDAP instance. It is overlooked that the export using slapcat saved the records in the order in which they were found physically in the database. The ldap * tool ldapadd expects the data sets according to the hierarchical directory structure. The import leads to an inconsistent database because ldapadd tries to insert records whose parent entries have not yet been imported.
* A user of OpenLDAP performs data backup and back-up of the data through the BerkeleyDB tools. He bypasses OpenLDAP and backs up the database using the program db_dump and restores the data using db_load. Because this backup does not correctly restore application-specific timestamps, the restored database for OpenLDAP is inconsistent and unusable.




