#G 3.49 Incorrect configuration of Active Directory
The Windows Server operating systems as of Windows 2000 Server allow the delegation of individual administrative rights - even for subareas of the Active Directory - to specific users. This delegation takes place by assigning detailed individual authorizations in the Active Directory.

Due to the high complexity of the assignment of rights in the Active Directory, such as the assignment of numerous specific individual authorizations for individual object types or the inheritance of authorizations, it can happen that

* Administrators have access to areas of Active Directory that they are not authorized to administer, or
* Areas of the Active Directory are not protected by access rights, so that every user can access this data.


The risk of unauthorized access in case of misconfiguration of the Active Directory access rights increases in particular in that several access interfaces exist on the Active Directory, eg. B. Active Directory Service Interfaces (ADSI) or Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP).

When trusts are established between domains, users of one domain can access resources from another domain. Therefore, a lack of trust relationship planning between domains may lead to unwanted access to a domain's resources.

Particularly critical may be actions that change the database structure of Active Directory:

* Changes to the Active Directory schema may cause the existing Windows system to become incompatible with software packages that also use Active Directory. Since some changes to the scheme can not be undone, this can lead to the entire system having to be completely rebuilt.


* When adding a personal attribute to the Active Directory's Global Catalog, there is a risk that personally identifiable information may be accessed beyond the intended audience.
* Example: Within a company, the internal telephone numbers of employees are stored in the Active Directory. If the company's computers are just one domain in the Active Directory tree of a larger enterprise network, these internal phone numbers would be distributed to all domains in the Active Directory tree when they were added to the Global Catalog.


So that a secure configuration of the Active Directory can also be ensured during operation, security-relevant configuration changes must not only be carefully planned, but also logged. If domain controllers are operated without sufficient logging, there is a risk that unauthorized, security-relevant configuration changes will not be detected and can not be corrected in time.

Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



