#G 3.32 Infringement  against legal framework conditions when using cryptographic procedures
When using cryptographic products, various legal conditions must be observed. For example, in some countries, cryptographic techniques may not be used without permission. This can lead to the fact that when encrypted data records are transmitted to such countries, the recipients can not read them because they can not use the required crypto modules, or perhaps even punishable.

In addition, the export of products with strong cryptography is considerably limited in many countries. Here are in particular the USA to call. In export restrictions, the strength of intrinsically strong encryption products is often artificially reduced (by reducing key diversity). Such artificially weakened procedures sometimes do not even provide sufficient protection for medium protection needs. This applies z. For example, US-based PC standard software, such as Internet browsers (SSL), uses a reduced key-space of 40  bits. In some cases, however, the export regulations also require that parts of the keys be deposited, so that the crypto modules are, in principle, usable without restriction, but that the foreign intelligence services can access them if necessary.

On the other hand, such restrictions, which apply when used in some countries during export, can lead to unshackable data being encrypted or to being protected with inferior crypto products. On the one hand, this can open doors and gates and on the other hand, it can lead to violations of national law. For example, data protection laws may require the use of adequate cryptographic procedures for the protection of personal data.

As of July 1999



