#G 3.85 Violation of fireboards
Every building in which IT operates is criss-crossed by a multitude of wires and cables. Fresh and sewer pipes, heating pipes, energy supply and data transmission are mentioned as examples. It is inevitable that such pipe and cable routes must cross fire walls and floors. If suitable fire barriers are not installed in such places (see M 1.9 Fire isolation of roads), it is possible that the fire and smoke may spread out unchecked.

In the course of building use, it is usually essential to carry out work on such routes or to lay new routes, either for repair purposes or to make room for additional lines that have become necessary.

In such work, fires may have to be partially or completely removed. In addition, additional cables change the fire load of the cable route. The consequence of this is that during and after the work the structurally preventive fire protection can sometimes be massively impaired.

Unfortunately, experience shows that persons entrusted with such work (in planning, execution and acceptance) often fail to properly assess the scope of their fire safety work and act accordingly:

* Replacement measures for remote fireboards are neither planned nor realized.
* Damaged fireboards will not be restored properly immediately.
* Fire protection measures will not be adapted to the new circumstances.


The consequence of this wrongdoing is an increased risk of fire and the spread of fire and smoke. If necessary corridors, escape and rescue routes are affected, not only the IT but also the health and the life of persons are endangered, which can have massive liability consequences.



## Examples 
* In a multi-storey office building, various nets were transported from the cellar to the top floor via a common climbing path. All ceiling breaches were made with plenty of reserve, but not re-closed after laying the lines. In the cellar large amounts of paper and material were stored in the area of ??the beginning of the line. In the event of fire, the riser directly above it would have looked like a chimney. Smoke and fire would spread over all floors in no time at all.




