#G 3.33 Misoperation of crypto modules
The misuse of crypto modules has often led to harm in practice. This incorrect operation can have various effects:

* Data is encrypted   because accidentally the plain text mode was activated in the crypto module.
* When entering cryptographic keys, key parts are entered incorrectly. The result is that neither the sender (who did not notice the wrong entry) nor the recipient (who can not know the key really used) can correctly decode the data encrypted with the wrongly entered key ,
* During the encryption process, the power supply of the crypto module is switched off by mistake. As a result, only parts of the data are encrypted, other parts are unscrambled. In such a case it is possible that decryption is no longer possible because the process was aborted uncontrollably.
* When entering encryption parameters, incorrect parameters are entered. This can result in insufficiently secure crypto algorithms or insecure cryptographic keys being used.
* If the user is involved in key generation, where he is prompted for the input of random characters when generating the key, there is also a misuse in this place no random characters, but known or easily guessable To use strings (words).


Such incorrect operation of a crypto module may result in the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data being impaired. Examples include:

* Data is not or no longer encrypted, although encryption would be required to maintain confidentiality.
* Encrypted data can no longer be decrypted because proper operation of the crypto module is no longer possible due to the incorrect operation.
* Data is unintentionally or intentionally encrypted in a way that can not be reconstructed because the necessary cryptographic key is unknown.
* Correctly encrypted data will be changed so that the data can no longer be decrypted.


As of July 1999



