#G 3.86 Unregulated and carefree use of printers, copiers and multifunction devices
In each institution information can be found that is not intended for the public. These may be development results, strategy papers or other confidential information. The duplication of these documents is usually controlled so that this information can not be disclosed to bystanders.

In the effort to achieve the highest possible level of security for all information processed with IT, the information available in analogy must not be neglected. This concerns, for example, printouts, paper files or microfilms. The strongest encryption is useless if the encrypted document is printed after decryption and can be viewed by unauthorized persons.

For network printers, the printed documents often remain in the printer's output tray for a long time. In particular, when the printers are not in the immediate vicinity of the users, users often print multiple files before collecting them all together. Since floor or departmental printers are used by a large number of people, many people also have the opportunity to view or steal printouts.

When prints are not picked up immediately, they are more likely to be seen or disappear altogether. This does not have to be done willingly. For example, if employees who use the printer also wait a long time for them to be printed on the device, they may skip the waiting time and see what other colleagues have printed and not picked up.

Also on copiers are always confidential documents that were forgotten there, for example, in the feeder.

Users often do not look for causes if their printouts are not on the printer. Instead, they suspect IT issues and start a new print job, because they are used to the fact that with the hardware and software always problems and unexplainable phenomena occur. However, the printouts could have been taken by others as well. Likewise, it often happens that users at their workstation have accidentally selected a different printer than the one they normally use. Typically, users then look for their printouts at the wrong printer, can not find them, and simply start a new print job, this time to the default printer. As a result, many network printers find misprints that are not picked up.



## Examples 
* Misprints are noticed by a user already in the printer room and there disposed of directly in the wastebasket. Another employee who has to wait for a print job uses the back of the discarded note printout. When these notes are passed on to an external company during a meeting, the misprint with internal information also reaches external parties.




