#G 3.50 Incorrect configuration of Novell eDirectory
Misconfiguration of software is one of the most common causes of successful attacks. Due to the high complexity and the large number of available parameters in eDirectory, additional safety issues can arise due to neglected side effects.

Possible misconfigurations affect, among other things

* the creation and definition of the tree structure itself,
* the configuration of the certificate server,
* the establishment of the objects to be imaged,
* the configuration of the access mechanisms,
* the assignment of access rights (see G 3.51 Incorrect assignment of access rights in Novell eDirectory),
* the configuration of the intranet client access to the directory service (see G 3.29 Missing or inappropriate segmentation),
* denLDAP access to eDirectory (see G 3.53 Incorrect configuration of LDAP access to Novell eDirectory),
* the configuration of the partitioning of the directory database,
* the configuration of the replication of eDirectory,
* the configuration of the eDirectory events to be recorded,
* the configuration of the real-time alert mechanism,
* the configuration of the iMonitor web-based remote monitoring tool as well
* the configuration of an automated backup mechanism.


In principle, the configuration of the system must be aligned with the security policy. Misconfigurations run the risk of inconsistently transposing this policy and failing to meet the objectives of the security policy.

eDirectory enables the configuration of a role-based administration of the directory system as well as the delegation of administration rights. In case of a misconfiguration of these functionalities, the result is u. Significant problems due to unauthorized system access. Furthermore, in the event of a faulty configuration there is a risk that regulated administration is no longer possible.

The following list gives an overview of the security-relevant possible consequences of a misconfiguration of the Novell eDirectory:

* Selection of weak authentication mechanisms,
* Incorrect authorization for accessing the objects of the directory service,
* unauthorized system access  via the administration interface,
* insufficient protection against system attacks,
* Blocking the administration of the system,
* incorrect or slow replication of the data between the directory databases as well
* Inconsistencies in the implementation of the security policy.


Status: as of 2006



