#G 3.107 Rufschdigung
Security incidents can cause the entire institution to become corrupted.

The different types of security precautions can have different direct effects, such as: For example, confidential data may be disclosed as well as financial-related data may be manipulated, or even business processes may take longer. If security incidents become public, this can lead to the reputation of the institution being damaged. Depending on the nature and impact of a security incident, this can undermine the trust of the public, the partners, the customers, but also the employees in the affected institution.

Damage can not only be caused by security incidents caused by force majeure or external attacks, but also by staff misconduct, eg. through unlawful activities on the Internet, sending of e-mails, security incidents resulting from violating or misapplication of security rules (laptop with customer data is stolen, including credit card details and overview of recent orders).



## Examples 
* An employee of a large company did not follow the guidelines established by the institution when using Internet services, but was always disconcerted in discussion groups by an inappropriate tone of voice. This triggered not only aversion to this person, but to the entire institution, as the employee was perceived by his electronic business cards as a representative of his company. This gave the company the reputation of being overbearing and not having a sound technical basis. A special marketing campaign was needed to rebuild this reputation.
* A sales representative lost an unnoticed USB stick during a train ride from him. On this stick was the overview over its orders of the last year, including customer addresses, account data and E-Mail addresses. The data was not encrypted. The Finder sold the data on the Internet. This led to fraudulent charges for some customers. In the subsequent police investigations, these could be attributed to the USB stick loss, which led to negative press releases and great loss of trust among partners and customers.
* In mid-December 2008, the editor-in-chief of a major German newspaper anonymously received a package containing confidential data from 130,000 customers of a bank. These included accounting overviews of credit card customers, bank and credit card secret codes, payment method lists, international debits and returns. The package also included a bill from a financial services firm to the bank. The newspaper suspected that an insider wanted to draw attention to privacy issues and published reports. The incident was seized as a data scandal by other media and the affected bank and the financial services company in the pillory. After a week, it turned out that the incident on the thirst of two courier drivers zurück ckging. In their van, among many other parcels, there was one with a Christmas stollen, intended as a gift for the editor-in-chief. The couriers pinched the tunnel and then tried to cover it up by pasting the address label on another bag. This was by chance the package with the bank customer data. The couriers received a small penalty, the image damage for the bank was enormous.




