#G 3.40 Inappropriate use of authentication services in VPNs
The identity of the VPN users wishing to access the LAN via a remote access VPN must be determined when establishing the connection. For this purpose, authentication mechanisms are typically used, which are based on a user management with stored authentication data. Virtual private networks (VPNs) usually offer several options for storing user data: their own user administration, the use of user administration of the operating system and the use of authentication servers (with their own user administration). If separate user administrations are used for the VPN and the operating system, inconsistencies in the two databases may occur, for example due to organizational problems. As a result, this may result in unauthorized connection and unauthorized access to data.

Many VPN clients for remote access allow the data required for authentication to be stored locally after a single input, so that when the user reconnects, the data is no longer required by the user. However, this carries a high risk potential in the event that the VPN client is exposed to unauthorized access. The authentication mechanism can then no longer fulfill its task. This may allow unauthorized persons to access local area networks that can be reached via a VPN connection from the corresponding client. The security of these local networks is thus endangered.



## Examples 
* When an employee leaves, the user account in the VPN user administration is not deleted. The former employee can therefore still dial in via the VPN access and access generally accessible data. Access could now also be used to make serious attacks.




