#G 3.60 Incorrect configuration of Exchange
The misconfiguration of a software system is often the cause of successful attacks. Due to the complexity of a Microsoft Exchange system, the number of configuration settings and the parameters that interact with each other can cause numerous security issues.

Some typical misconfigurations are listed below:

* The Exchange server components are installed and operated on inappropriate systems. This has significant consequences for the administration rights on the server and prevents meaningful role separation of the administration. Furthermore, there are disadvantages in terms of performance and in terms of reliability.
* The access restrictions on an Exchange server are insufficient. In particular, when combined with weak or incorrect access permissions to other services or e-mail databases, security problems may arise.


* In many cases, the creation or initialization of an Exchange database initially requires extensive rights that are no longer required for day-to-day operation. If the default access rights are not changed, this can lead to unauthorized access to the e-mail database or to users being given far-reaching rights.


* Encryption is not used. Encryption of network communication (port encryption) and e-mail communication is not enabled in a default installation. To use the encryption, this must be set up explicitly. Otherwise the e-mail data will be unprotected during the delivery process.


The listed aspects are examples of possible security problems due to misconfiguration. Depending on the particular operating environment, additional problem areas may be added.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



