#G 3.83 Incorrect configuration of VoIP components
Regardless of whether the VoIP components are dedicated hardware (appliances) or software-based systems, configuration plays a crucial role. In addition to the signaling settings that have been defined during the planning process, the transmission method for the media streams plays an important role. By a compression method, the size of the IP packets with the voice information can be reduced.

Very often, the use of an inappropriate method that over compresses the voice information leads to a deterioration of the voice quality. If, on the other hand, a method is selected which causes too little compression, the message stream is not sufficiently reduced and the IP network can be overloaded.

To protect the confidentiality of telephone conversations, encryption can be used on a few media transfer protocols, such as SRTP. In order to counteract the logging on switching systems that may be needed, many encrypted protocols can be encrypted directly between the terminals. A misconfiguration may result in an unscrambled transmission, possibly even without the users noticing. If too weak encryption procedures or too short key words are chosen, an attacker may be able to hear the communication despite being encrypted.

Not only listening to conversations can be interesting for an attacker. Also, the information that is transmitted during the signaling, can be abused by an attacker. If an incorrect setting in the terminal transmits the password when logging in plain text, the attacker could, for example, spend himself on behalf of another user, even though all participating VoIP components support safer (challenge-response) procedures tzen. This identity theft could allow the attacker to make phone calls at the victim's expense or abuse other services such as answering machine.

Very often, applications such as softphones or software-based telephone systems are operated on a standard PC. For this a commercial operating system must be installed on which the programs are executed. Errors in the administration and configuration of the operating system can have a major impact on the operation and security of VoIP applications.

Regardless of whether a terminal (softphone) or a switching system (software PBX) is operated on the IT system, certain functionalities can not be used due to a faulty distribution of access rights on the one hand on the other hand falsely assigned access rights are abused.

Status: as of 2006



