#G 3.116 Missing time synchronization during log data evaluation
If the time is not synchronized on all IT systems in an information network, the log data may not be compared because the different timestamps of events are not common. For example, the correlation of a rule violation on a security gateway (firewall) with failed logon attempts may fail. This danger is especially important if central logging is used. Without a common time base, messages from different IT systems can not be correlated.

The time and date settings for a timestamp function very often depend on the regional setting. For example, in the Anglo-Saxon world, the date is given in the notation MM / DD / YYYY (month / day / year, eg (05/09/2009) This can be an automatic evaluation, such as an IT -Fr hwarnsystem, lead to misinterpretations.

Furthermore, especially in Unix systems, often missing a year in the log files. This is particularly problematic with regard to the probative value of the data, if further events have to be considered and these can not be classified chronologically.



## Examples 
* In an information network, a central logging server is put into operation. The entire network receives its clock from an internal NNTP server in the LAN. The information network is the subject of several attacks that compromise the NTP server. This changes the time that the NTP server distributes so that the rest of the IT systems have a different time than the log server. This has the consequence that the log data of the IT systems are inconsistent and can no longer be compared.
* A German company integrates a new security gateway (firewall), which was developed and manufactured in non-European countries, into its information network. Since all IT systems and applications in the company are monitored by means of an IT early warning system, this security gateway is also integrated. At the IT early warning system, the setting is active, that all log data, which contain a date other than the current date, trigger an alarm. This should reveal possible manipulations of the log data. The date is interpreted on the early warning system in the form DD / MM / YY (day / month / year). However, the log files of the new security gateway provide date entries in the format MM / DD / YY (month / day / year). As a result, the security gateway produces a large amount of false alarms the first day it is integrated with the IT early warning system.




