#G 3.43 Inappropriate handling of passwords or other authentication mechanisms
Even the use of well-thought-out authentication methods does not help much if users do not handle the required means of access with due care. Regardless of whether passwords, PINs or authentication tokens are used, they are always passed on or stored insecure.

Users often pass passwords on to other users for convenience. Often, passwords are shared within workgroups to make it easy for each employee to access shared files. The compulsion to use the password is often perceived as a nuisance and is undermined by the fact that passwords are never changed or all employees use the same password.

Time and again there are IT systems and applications in which the passwords preset by the manufacturer have not been changed. Often this even affects the administrator passwords, which have not been changed so as not to be forgotten. However, standard passwords are well known and pose a high security risk.

If a token-based method is used for user authentication (eg chip card or one-time password generator), there is a risk that the token will be used unauthorized if lost. An unauthorized user may successfully establish a remote access connection with this token.

Because of the variety of passwords and PINs, users often can not remember them all. Therefore, passwords are forgotten again and again, which sometimes leads to high costs in order to be able to continue working with the system. Authentication tokens can also be lost. For very secure IT systems, losing passwords or tokens can even cause all user data to be lost.

Passwords are often noted so they will not be forgotten. This is not a problem as long as they are carefully preserved, ie protected against unauthorized access. This is not always the case. A classic example is the password under the keyboard or on a sticky note on the screen. Authentication tokens are often found under the keyboard.

Another trick to remember passwords is choosing the right one. If users can choose passwords themselves and are not sufficiently aware of the issues involved, trivial passwords such as 4711 or friends' names are often used.



## Examples 
* Samples showed in a company that many passwords were chosen too poorly or rarely changed. It was technically enforced that the passwords were changed monthly and also had to include numbers or special characters. It turned out that an administrator chose his passwords as follows: January-2008, February-2008, March-2008, Although these passwords met the requirements, they were easy to guess.
* In one agency, it was revealed that some of the users who had their offices facing the street used the same password: the name of the opposite hotel, which dominated the view in large letters.




