#G 3.69 Incorrect configuration of Unix System Services on z / OS
Unix System Services (USS) is a z / OS subsystem that must be customized prior to commissioning.

When customizing the USS parameters, there are a number of problem areas that must be considered to avoid security issues with the z / OS system or parts of the z / OS system.

Depending on the type of misconfiguration, certain subfunctions of the Unix System Services are not available after starting the z / OS system or the USS subsystem does not start:

* If subfunctions of the USS fail, important subsystems, such as As TCP / IP missing.
* If the entire USS subsystem does not start, the z / OS operating system is also not available.
* If HFS files are not allocated during the startup phase, applications that need these files can not be operated.


The following are some typical configuration errors of the USS:

* The complex structure of BPXPRMxx members can lead to administration errors. This has caused the system to boot incorrectly during the Initial Program Load (IPL). This is a question of the order in which each member definition goes through.
* Certain parameters in the BPXPRM00 member must be matched to the capacity limits of the system. Otherwise, there is a risk that more Unix processes will start up than the system can handle.
* There may be errors with the sysplex definitions, eg. Eg in the VERSION statement.
* Errors are possible when defining the mount policies of HFS and zFS files (Type, Mode and Mountpoint).
* Within the BPXPRMxx members, variables may have been used incorrectly.




## Examples 
* Invoking a recursive Unix command continued to create new processes on a z / OS system until the z / OS page files became insufficient. Despite the availability of further page disks, it was not possible to save the system because only a few system inputs were possible. The problem could only be solved by restarting the system (IPL).




