#G 3.121 Configuration and administration errors in web services
When using web services, configuration and administration errors can occur not only in the underlying platforms (operating systems, web and application servers, databases), but also in connection with the web services themselves or the associated components, for example Example, an Enterprise Service Bus or a Security Token Service.

Depending on the type of service or components, configuration settings and parameters can be maintained in a wide variety of forms, from (possibly XML-based) configuration files to database contents and custom administration tools and interfaces. The risk of errors is correspondingly different: if XML files are processed manually, the risk of error is clearly increased vis-à-vis an administration interface with plausibility checks and security queries.

Administration errors are further promoted if the documentation of the configuration options, their effects, and the chosen settings are missing, outdated or incomplete, and if the administrative staff has not been sufficiently trained or briefed.

The consequences of such configuration and administration errors can be quite different:

* Web services do not work or do not fulfill their intended purpose. Particularly problematic here are errors that are delayed to the Web service only or affect only certain conditions, so that an assignment of the problem to the cause is more difficult.


* Users or permissions are administered incorrectly. As a result, either authorized users can not use the services intended for them (impairment of availability), or unauthorized users have access to services or information that is not intended for them (impairment of confidentiality, in the case of write access) also the integrity).


* Foreseen security mechanisms are inadvertently disabled, work incorrectly, or do not have adequate strength (for example, if cryptographic algorithms and parameters are incorrectly selected).


* The communication between different services or the exchange of messages, if necessary via an Enterprise Service Bus, are interrupted, delayed or suppressed.


* Orchestration of various web services is compromised because service or interface descriptions are incorrect or repositories are not configured correctly. Especially with a dynamic orchestration, the consequences can be considerable (see also G 3.120 Orchestration errors).


* The traceability of information processing and the visibility or disclosure of attacks are compromised when errors are made in the configuration of logging mechanisms or components, for example by disabling logging capabilities or by inappropriately defining logging contents.


* The attack surface can be unnecessarily increased if functions for debugging and software development or other unused functions remain active in productive environments.


* By unnecessarily disclosing information, attacks can be facilitated or facilitated (see also G 5.184 Information Acquisition via Web Services).


In distributed environments in which the participating web services are operated by different providers, the risk of error increases due to the lack of coordination or communication between the providers involved.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



