#G 3.68 Insufficient or incorrect configuration of the z / OS web server
The adoption of the default settings or a faulty configuration of the z / OS web server can lead to security problems.

* When using the default settings (httpd.conf file) and incorrectly set Userid rules, the MVSDS function of the web server may display files that are not normally available to the user under his ID should be available, such as Eg system files.
* Administration errors can cause z / OS web server processes to run under the Started Task ID. If this identifier has high rights in the system (eg superuser), this can lead to security problems. File accesses and commands then take place under the authorization of this identifier. As a result, u. U. Access to files with customer data or, as previously described, to system files via the MVS Dataset display function possible.
* The z / OS web server supports encrypted data communication over the SSL protocol. If the parameters are configured incorrectly, there is a risk that the encryption is deactivated or the processes run under a different RACF identifier.


Further dangers are listed in the module B 5.4 Webserver.



## Examples 
* Using the standard definitions of a z / OS web server allowed an external attacker to view sensitive files. In addition, the web server was set to run the high privilege service under its own Started Task ID. It was thus possible for an external attacker to display the SYS1.PROCLIB and SYS1.PARMLIB files from the Internet. From this information, the attacker was able to extract information that facilitated the attack on the entire z / OS system.




