#G 4.30 Loss of database integrity / consistency
A loss of database integrity / consistency means that the data in the database still exists but is in a bad state. As a result, the data can no longer be accessed correctly or the data can no longer be processed correctly. Database inconsistency can be caused in a variety of ways, from unwanted manipulation of data (for example, by unintentionally changing data) to erroneous synchronization control of transactions, to targeted attacks.

This can lead to the following consequences:

* Certain tasks that depend on the correct data in the database can not or no longer be fully performed.
* The information content of the data as a whole is mislaid.
* There is a great deal of work to restore data integrity and data consistency of the database.


Depending on the cause of the database integrity / consistency violation, it may be difficult or even impossible to determine which data has been changed (see also G2.22 Missing or inadequate interpretation of log data). This can lead to further economic damage or security risks.



## Examples 
* Due to lack of space and time pressure, a database file was created in the / tmp file system on a Unix server. This file system was automatically deleted overnight, so that the entire database was no longer usable.
* Electronic archives are based on a database in which all archived documents are indexed. If the indexing or the reference to individual documents is lost, they may no longer be found at a reasonable cost. Such loss of database integrity may result in significant economic or legal damage at a later date.




