#G 4.22 Software vulnerabilities or errors
For any type of software, the more complex it is, the more frequently programming or design errors occur. Software vulnerabilities are to be understood as meaning unintentional program errors that are not or not yet known to the user and that represent a security risk for the IT system. New security gaps are constantly being found in existing, even widespread or completely new software.

Software errors or weaknesses can come for a variety of reasons. These include, for example, communication errors between customers and developers, insufficient training of programmers or inadequate tests. Excessive user expectations and time-to-dead- lines for completion can also lead to manufacturers offering their products partly unripe or faultless.

If software errors are not detected, the errors resulting from the application can lead to far-reaching consequences. With widespread standard software, software vulnerabilities can quickly lead to serious security problems for all types of institutions worldwide.



## Examples 
* A software failure in the security software RACFdesz / OS operating system may mean that not only RACF stops the service, but that the whole system is no longer functional and needs to be restarted.
* The level of security functionality implemented in standard software (such as passwords or encryption algorithms) is often considered too high by the user. In many cases, these security functionalities can not permanently withstand a knowledgeable attack. This applies z. B.For the encryption functions that are built into many word processors. For almost all of them, there are numerous tools on the Internet to overcome this encryption.
* It has been proven that the occurrence of a certain word in the spell check of a word processing program always led to its crash.
* In many cases, standard software contains undocumented functions, such as so-called Easter eggs or gag screens, with which the developers of the product have immortalized themselves. On the one hand, additional IT resources are consumed, on the other hand, it also makes it clear that in the software test, the entire functionality of the product can not be completely cleared.
* Most Computer Emergency Response Team alerts in recent years have been related to security-related programming errors. These are errors that arise when creating software and cause this software to be misused by attackers. The majority of these errors were caused by memory overflows (buffer overflow). These are errors in which a routine for reading characters does not check whether the length of the input character string matches the length of the memory area provided for it. This allows attackers to transfer an over-length string so that additional commands can be stored after the space reserved for input. These commands can be any programs, for example.
* Another large number of alerts were caused by Denial of Service (DoS) attacks, which can cause the entire machine to crash due to errors in individual routines used for network data processing.
* Inadequate protection of the registry to use a cloud service will result in a user being able to misuse the service under a false name. The user registers with the cloud service on behalf of another cloud service user. When registering, sufficient security is waived, for example by using an activation link at the specified e-mail address.




