#G 4.76 Failure of management servers for virtualization systems
Multiple virtualization servers can be used to build a virtual infrastructure. It connects the virtualization servers in such a way that the virtual IT systems running on them are always executed on the virtualization server, which can provide the optimal performance for this IT system. If a virtualization server can provide more resources to a running virtual IT system (dynamic resource allocation, eg Citrix XenServer Workload Balancing or VMware Dynamic Resource Scheduling), it is even possible to migrate this IT system by means of a migration ( Live Migration) to move the IT system with the free resources.

In addition, the availability of virtual IT systems can be enhanced by high-availability mechanisms such as the automatic restart of failed virtual machines. These features require a centralized management server for most virtualization products that coordinates the operation of each virtual machine and the virtualization server. Virtualization products that can use such a central management server include Citrix XenServer, Microsoft Hyper-V, or VMware ESX. The management server (Citrix XenCenter, Microsoft System Center Virtual Machine Manager, SUN Management Center, or Vmware vCenter) also typically has a monitoring component that can be used to monitor the functioning of the virtual IT systems and virtualization servers.

Since the management server manages and administers all the functions of a virtual infrastructure, failure of this management system means that configuration changes to the virtual infrastructure can not be made. Administrators can not respond to problems such as resource bottlenecks, the failure of individual virtualization servers, integrate a new virtualization server into the infrastructure or create new virtual IT systems.

Even functions such as live migration and thus the dynamic allocation of resources for individual guest systems are no longer available, since the instance that coordinates such functions is no longer ready for operation. As a result, the virtual infrastructure can no longer automatically respond to resource bottlenecks, adversely affecting both the performance and availability of individual virtual IT systems. This occurs especially when the virtualization server resources have been overbooked.

In addition, the management server is used to monitor the virtualization servers and the virtual IT systems running on them. If the management server or its monitoring component returns incorrect or no data, the function of the virtual infrastructure can no longer be adequately monitored by the administrators. There is thus a risk that resource bottlenecks will go unnoticed in the virtual infrastructure and that there will not be enough time to expand the virtual infrastructure. The failure of individual virtual IT systems may also not be detected in time if the monitoring of the virtual infrastructure has failed.

Furthermore, even the failure of virtualization servers can go unnoticed if the virtual IT systems running on it have indeed been migrated to another virtualization server and thus failing to perform any services in the data center, but the failure does not signal because of an error in the management and monitoring software becomes. The resulting reduction in redundancy can massively reduce the overall availability of the virtual infrastructure.



## Examples 
* One organization runs multiple virtualization servers, which are grouped into two farms. In each of these farms, several virtual IT systems are operated. The virtualization servers have been distributed to two farms, because different virtual IT systems can not be operated together with others due to different protection requirements. When planning the two farms, the number of virtualization servers required is based on a forecast of the future Performance requirements have been determined. After some time, however, it turns out that the forecast was inaccurate. It is noted that the first of the two farms requires another virtualization server to meet the performance needs of the virtual IT systems. The administrators of the virtualization servers find that their utilization is well below the second farm's performance data Performance forecast is behind. Therefore, it is decided not to procure a new virtualization server, but instead to move one from the second farm to the first. Now the virtual IT systems on the virtualization server to be relocated to the first farm will be migrated to others and become the server added to the first farm. As a result, the resources in the second farm are massively overbooked and there are strong performance drops. According to the results of the performance analysis, this was not to be expected. The reason for the massive performance losses of the virtual IT systems in the second farm was that the management system for this farm improperly processed the performance data of the individual virtualization servers and significantly increased them displayed low values ??for resource consumption.




