#G 4.84 Insufficient validation of input and output data in web applications and web services
Web applications are generally used by generic clients (web browsers) so that users can submit any input data to the server. Web services, on the other hand, are accessed by other applications or services (for example, smartphone apps). However, input data can also often be modified here, for example by using a proxy or by manipulating the clients. If bad input from an attacker is processed by the web application or the web service, protection mechanisms may be bypassed.

Examples of attacks based on inadequate validation of input data include SQL injection (see G 5.131 SQL injection), Path traversal (see  5.172 Web application and Web services authorization bypass), and Remote File Inclusion , These attacks can give unauthorized access to the operating system or background systems. In the event of a successful attack, valuable data can be read out or manipulated unauthorized.

After the web application or web service has successfully processed the input data, data is usually returned. The output data is either transmitted directly to the user's browser (for example status messages or a new entry in the guestbook) or the calling application or passed on to downstream systems. If the data is not sufficiently validated before output, the output could contain malicious code that is interpreted or executed on the target systems.

The following examples describe possible effects of inadequate validation of inputs and outputs:

* A web application or web service uses input data unfiltered to generate database queries. An attacker can exploit this and formulate a request that contains additional commands for the database in addition to the regular input data. Unfiltered embedding of the input data into the database query executes the commands from the database. This allows the attacker to gain direct access to the database.


* A web application offers a file upload function and limits it to certain file types. To determine the file type, the web application only checks the file extension and does not take into account the contents of the file. If an allowed file extension is used for the upload, files with any content can be transmitted to the server.


* If input data are automatically changed and adjusted by the filter component (sanitizing), the data can be transferred from the filter component into an attack vector by specific input from an attacker.


* Input and output data can be in different encodings (for example UTF-8, ISO 8859-1) and notations (for example UTF-8. = 2E = C0 AE). Depending on the coding scheme used, the same value can be interpreted differently. If the filter component interprets the data differently than the processing components of the web application or the web service, an attacker may encode corrupted data (for example, SQL statements) such that they are not recognized during filtering. Thus, the data corrupted by the attacker is passed on to the processing components and executed on the basis of the different interpretation.


* The comment function of a web application allows the texts to be formatted by HTML. For example, the inputs are not restricted to special HTML tags, so an attacker can use this feature to place any HTML code on the web application. This can be used by an attacker to manipulate or overlay elements of the website and intercept user input (see G 5.175 Clickjacking). The same attack is transferable to web services that allow HTML code as input and apply it unfiltered to its output.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



