#G 4.97 Vulnerabilities in connecting to an outsourcing or cloud service provider
The execution of an outsourcing or cloud use project usually requires the service provider's access to the client's internal resources. This is often realized by a mutual connection of parts of the respective IT infrastructure. To speed up the exchange of information between the client and the contractor, special information channels (for example, dedicated leased lines, VPN connections, access for remote maintenance) may be set up.

If this connection is not secured or weak points occur during the protection, there are inevitably a series of dangers:

* The confidentiality of communication can be at risk.
* The integrity of transmitted data sets is no longer guaranteed.
* The receipt of transmitted information and messages could be denied.
* External information is provided for the actual needs of the service provider for a comprehensive insight into internals of the client.
* It creates additional access for outsiders to the intranet of the institution and thus sources of danger.
* With open or poorly secured IT access, there are opportunities for manipulation.
* Confidential information and intellectual property may be disclosed to outsiders.
* External system accesses may not be adequately controlled.


The protection requirements of interface systems (for example, application-level gateways, packet filters) and lines can increase with the use of outsourcing or cloud services. If no new analysis of the protection requirement is made, this results in a threat to the availability of the connection.

The IT connection between the outsourcing institution and the service provider can also be complete. In the process, data whose transmission was not completely completed before the failure can be destroyed or inconsistent. Depending on the duration and nature of the failure, the consequences can also be life-threatening. This risk is reinforced if there is no emergency preparedness concept (see G 2.93 Insufficient emergency preparedness concept for outsourcing or cloud use).

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



