#G 4.73 Impairment of software features due to compatibility issues with Windows versions
Software that has been successfully run on previous versions of an operating system does not necessarily have to work with the current version of the operating system. Possible causes include new security features or operating system properties. As a result, the software can not be used or only with restrictions. This may relate to existing software and software purchased.

According to Microsoft, new, activated security features of new versions of Windows can be the cause of possible compatibility issues. These include:

* User Account Control (UAC), new in clients as of Windows Vista
* Kernel PatchGuard or Patch Protection, known only on 64-bit versions as of Windows Vista and earlier versions of 64-bit Windows
* Redirect system paths and registry keys in 32-bit WoW64 (64-bit Windows-on-Windows) versions of Windows 64-bit
* Windows Resource Protection (WRP), new to clients as of Windows Vista
* Protected mode of Internet Explorer (Protected Mode), new in clients as of Windows Vista
* Necessary signed drivers for the 64-bit versions of clients as of Windows Vista
* Outdated objects that were commonly used by Windows XP-compatible software no longer exist. The same applies to GINA and so-called Session 0 processes


Examples:

* User Account Control (UAC) User Account Control can affect and prevent the execution of Group Policy-driven login scripts. The distribution and correct execution of GPO-based login scripts should be checked on a case-by-case basis from Windows Vista. The user rights required to execute the scripts must be given.
* Kernel Patch Protection in Windows Vista Kernel Patch Protection is intended to prevent unauthorized changes to the kernel by programs (the term patch refers to correction software). With Kernel Patch Protection, programs can communicate with kernel components only through special Windows application programming interfaces (APIs). Kernel Patch Protection is only for the 64-bit versions and not for the 32-bit versions Bit versions of clients as of Windows Vista are available, they can not be deactivated. It has been shown that programs of third parties, in particular virus protection programs, were not always compatible with Kernel Patch Protection. The consequence of this may be a lack of or a limited antivirus protection of the IT system.
* Fingerprint readers, VPN solutions, and protection software no longer work properly when using legacy GINA modules or addressing legacy IPv4 communication protocol calls.
* The optimized for touch surfaces Windows 8 introduces programs as apps for the first time. These are characterized by a touch surface optimized surface (operation with fingers instead of mouse and keyboard). Well-known Windows programs and their app versions can, however, differ in their functionality. For example, Internet Explorer as of Windows 8 is available in two operating modes. It can still be started in the previously known desktop version and supports numerous plug-ins and extensions. In the App version of the Internet Explorer, however, the functionality of plug-ins and extensions is severely limited.


Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



