#G 4.54 Loss of protection by the EFS encrypting file system
The Encrypting File System (EFS) as of Windows Server 2003 / XP is an easy-to-use means for users to transparently work with encrypted files. It is best for individual users and exposed client computers that are temporarily out of the protected IT environment. The main intention of EFS is to protect the confidentiality of dedicated local data.

The inadequacy of key management in encryption described in  .2.19 can in many ways lead to the disclosure of EFS certificates used for encryption and decryption or get lost. On a file server, large amounts of data would no longer be confidential or unavailable, which can be fatal compared to a single client. On a server, data loss when copying or moving data also plays a significant role and may result in the loss or damage of larger amounts of data. If administrators are not sufficiently aware of such effects and complex requirements, the increased security provided by an activated EFS can easily be lost. If users and administrators are negligent due to the supposed security, critical data is even more threatened than without activated EFS. In the following, some sub-aspects are explained in more detail.

With EFS, it is not possible to guarantee the confidentiality of encrypted data on remote servers to administrators. At any time, an administrator can gain access to encrypted data through permissions and the built-in recovery process.

EFS is completely transparent to users and applications. This means that every process and every application that runs in the context of the user has access to the encrypted files. EFS therefore does not protect against malicious software such as Trojan horses and viruses. EFS does not replace the careful administration of NTFS Access Control Lists (ACL). Encrypted files can be deleted by users or applications, regardless of EFS protection, if they have sufficient NTFS permissions.

The transparency goes so far that users generally do not know whether data is encrypted or decrypted. Encryption is only available on NTFS-formatted volumes. When copying and moving to storage media with other file systems, the files are stored unencrypted.



