#G 4.85 Missing or poor error handling by web applications and web services
If errors occur during the operation of a web application or a web service, this can have unpredictable effects and limit the availability of the web application or the web service to unavailability. For example, actions are performed incompletely, cached states and data are lost, or security mechanisms fail. If errors are not handled correctly, the operation and protection of the functions and data of a web application or a web service can no longer be guaranteed.

Examples:

* On-the-fly, web applications and web services typically allocate resources, such as open network or file streams, to access background systems, cached states, or other data. As long as the web application / web service accesses these resources, they are often reserved for exclusive access and can not be used by other processes. If the resources used are not properly released in the event of an error, they may remain in a blocked state. This can cause data to be lost because, for example, cached changes can not be properly written.


* If errors occur during the execution of the security components (for example, authentication, authorization) and if these are treated inadequately, requested actions may be executed in an uncontrolled manner. Actions that are rejected in the normal state could be allowed in case of error.


* Error messages can include detailed troubleshooting information that is not necessary for the user, but does allow for targeted attacks. This detailed information includes stack traces, debug output, error messages on invalid SQL queries, information about Web servers in use, and other application components. Also seemingly uncritical information, such as the message in a failed login with username and password that the user name is known, but an invalid password was entered, can be exploited, for example, in the context of brute force attacks. In this case, the attacker knows that the username exists.


* If the error handling is performed exclusively on the client (for example, web browser or application using a web service), it can be manipulated or overridden. An attacker can thus influence and control the treatment of the errors.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



