#G 4.100 Hardware failure and hardware failure on embedded systems
The hardware of embedded systems may fail or malfunction. The causes of this can lie in various areas, eg. B.

* unfavorable environmental influences such as electromagnetic interference,
* Temperature fluctuations,
* Humidity,
* mechanical stress,
* radioactive radiation,
* an unstable power supply,
* production-related material defects and production spread and
* normal or premature wear .


In addition, the general trend towards falling structure sizes, higher integration density and lower supply voltages in semiconductors means that hardware faults that occur are more difficult to detect. These can initially occur only occasionally at irregular intervals (sporadic errors) or persist over an indefinite period of time (permanent errors).

Transient errors occur sporadically like sporadic errors, but they usually do not cause a permanent error. You will z. B. caused by particle inclusions and manifest themselves as Bitkipper. These can occur in memory cells, in bus systems or in registers of the Central Processing Unit (CPU). Potential consequences depend on how fault tolerant a system is and the specific situation in each case. A software module may provide incorrect values, which may lead to misbehavior or crash of the embedded or higher-level system. Unrecognized errors or miscalculations can lead to high damage, eg. B.when a sensor provides a critical measurement that requires an immediate action and this or the comparison value is deleted.

Any failure can ultimately lead to the complete failure of the embedded system, thereby severely affecting the surrounding systems.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



