#G 4.69 Problems with the IPSec configuration
Internet Protocol Security, IPSec for short, is a widely used method for securing IP-based communication and is often used for VPNs. IPSec is a set of key management, authentication and encryption protocols. Due to the complexity of the standard, erroneous configurations may occur which compromise the security and stability of the communication link, eg. of the VPN channel.

Before the actual encryption, the communication partners must agree on the Security Associations (SA) to be used. Many IPSec implementations have the ability to work with fixed SAs and keys. However, this is associated with the disadvantages described in G 2.1.130 Unsuitable Selection of VPN Encryption Methods.

If key negotiation selects Aggressive Mode, the identities and signatures (and optional certificates) are transmitted in clear text.

Since the IPSec standard was specified in 1998, it does not take into account some later developed network configuration procedures. For example, in certain configurations, IPSec has procedural issues with the Network Address Translation (NAT) used today in many networks because it changes the IPSec package. For this reason, the supplementary RFCs 3947 and 3948 on NAT traversal were developed.

Many manufacturers of VPN software have also implemented in their products one or more versions of the partially mutually incompatible solution proposals for NAT issues. As a result, when using NAT, different VPN products can not, only with restrictions, or communicate with one another at a low security level.

The most frequent configuration problems of an IPSec VPN are to be traced back to SA suggestion lists, where none of the initiator SA proposals matches the suggestions of the other party, ie the responder. Another frequent reason for the failure of an IPSec connection is inadequate releases on security gateways.



## Examples 
* An administrator uses Aggressive Mode due to the faster connection setup. However, plaintext transmission in aggressive mode has a weak point: The gateway sends a hash value derived from the Pre Shared Keying (PSK) method for authentication via the network. Since this hash value is not encrypted, an attacker could reconstruct the key over dictionary or brute-force attacks and access the company network.
* When installing the VPN of a medium-sized company for the first time, an inexperienced administrator sends the used keys to the participating branch by unspecified e-mail. The transmission is disconnected. The attacker can access the VPN using the compromised information, access confidential documents and sell them to a rival company.




