#G 4.68 Errors in the Active Directory due to unnecessary file replication
Since the introduction of the Windows 2000 Server operating system, domain controllers use the File Replication Service (FRS) to replicate system policies and login scripts of clients on an institution's network.

In addition, FRS is used to replicate data from fault-tolerant shares in the Distributed File System (DFS) between servers as of Windows 2000 Server.

To allow FRS to initiate replication at the appropriate time, the FRS service monitors file close events of the NTFS file system for all directories and files to be replicated by FRS. File Close events are handled by certain file operations, such as. Deleting and creating files or changes to file and directory permissions.

Software used for system administration, eg. Backup programs or antivirus programs, while accessing files and directories that are monitored by the FRS service, can cause unnecessary replication if the files and directories are not accessed properly. All files that are to be replicated are summarized in the so-called staging folder before the actual replication.

Signs of unnecessary replication were noticeable in the system environment in the following ways:

* Files from DFS shares are frequently replicated without any noticeable change to the files.
* For replication, too much bandwidth is used between the replication partners in the network.
* The number of files in the staging folder is constantly increasing. For example, if the number of files increases each time a virus scanner or backup program is run, this is a clear indication of unnecessary replication. Often the staging folder is emptied after running the antivirus or backup program with the next replication cycle of the FRS. If the staging folder is never emptied completely, this indicates that the replication is due to the high number of modified files can not be fully performed.




