#G 4.52 Data loss in mobile use
With mobile devices and mobile data carriers, the risk of data loss is higher than with stationary systems. The cause may be theft or loss of equipment, but also technical problems or simple lack of power.

Mobile data carriers and devices are often stolen because they are small and universally applicable. In some cases, the devices have their sights on the devices, but sometimes also on the information stored there.

More often, data loss is without criminal intentions of outsiders. Surveys have shown that every second respondent has ever lost, forgotten or lost an USB stick, a memory card or any other mobile data carrier. As a result, valuable data can get into the wrong hands.

Mobile IT devices are not always online. Therefore, the data stored on these systems is not always up-to-date. This applies to calendar entries as well as general information, but it may also have security implications. For example, during the period when there is no connection to the organization's IT systems and information resources, information about current security issues and virus scanners can not be updated.

Examples:

* The new smartphone fills the shirt pocket and crashes or a handheld is retrieved from the dog instead of the newspaper. Transport damage, in particular, often leads to data losses and device or component failures. Dust, pollution, moisture and shocks, in short improper treatment, are the cause of many total losses of mobile terminal data.
* The data of a mobile device may temporarily be unavailable because the battery is empty because it was forgotten to charge it. They may, for example, with older devices, but also completely destroyed, if in addition to the accumulator also the possibly existing backup battery is empty and thus all not already synchronized data are lost.
* Even when synchronizing mobile data carriers and devices with other IT systems, data can be destroyed. In general, before synchronization, you have to set how to handle conflicting data reconciliation: for example, if identical files are taken over from the mobile device or the other device without asking, - the newest file is accepted or - a query is made.


This was often configured once when the docking station was started up and then forgotten again. If, however, data is changed in a different order than originally thought, important information is quickly lost. This unpleasant side-effect can also occur if several users synchronize their mobile devices with the same device, without thinking that the files of the same name can be overwritten.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



