#G 4.94 Unauthorized access to another client's data in web applications and web services
A key advantage in the realization of IT services as web services is the ability to offer identical services on a common technical infrastructure for different users (clients) and thus reduce the operating costs per client. The type of services offered can be varied, from cloud storage services to online payment services to business applications such as CRM or financial accounting.

If the web services access client-specific data, there is a risk that accessibility to data records of the other clients of the service may arise due to design or implementation errors. Typical causes of such errors are:

* Users are assigned incorrectly to a client: If an incorrect assignment is made during the administration of the user and authorizations due to a user or program error, one employee of one client can erroneously gain access to the data of another client. This can also be the faulty automated mapping of users to technical service accounts in background systems.


* Errors in the program logic: As far as the separation of the client-specific data is only realized by tests in the program code, simple programming errors can lead to access to incorrect data, which may also belong to another client.


* Missing Checks When Calling Web Services Directly: If parameters are transferred (or changed in the case of REST-based Web Services URL components) when a Web service is called directly, this refers to data from another client incorrect or missing implementation of checks the possibility that data of the other client are displayed or processed.


* Unauthorized access to administrative interfaces: If administrative functions for the cross-client administration of the service, in particular by the web service provider itself, are not adequately secured against unauthorized access, then access to client-specific data can also be provided be like.


* Unnecessary notice of outside data in the course of investigation activities: In order to investigate security incidents, service users or third parties (eg investigative authorities) may be able to access log data or IT forensic investigations of the systems deployed desire. In the absence of appropriate concepts for ensuring the separation of data in such cases, sensitive data from other clients not affected by the incident may also be inadvertently collected and documented, for example, in investigation reports.


The access to data of external clients may in all cases also include the data of the established service users, including in particular also authentication information (for example passwords). In this case, the effects may also extend beyond the service concerned, as long as the authentication data are also used for other services or allow for user password patterns.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



