#G 4.74 Failure of IT components in a virtualized environment
Within a classic IT infrastructure, server operating systems and their services as well as the operating systems of the workstations are executed on physical IT systems. The infrastructure components required for operating the server systems (network components, storage networks and the like) are likewise provided distributed on different physical IT systems.

In a virtualized environment, on the other hand, the server systems and parts of the necessary infrastructure components are largely provided as separate server instances by the virtualization servers themselves. Thus, for example, when a virtual server accesses the network, it does not access a physical IT system such as a switch, but rather a component provided by the virtualization server that operates only as software but not as its own hardware ,

If a physical IT system fails, it is often possible to continue working with the remaining systems. Although the services provided by the failed server are no longer available, this does not necessarily affect all other installed servers. For example, if a database server fails, you can still access the file server. Not all business processes that are supported by the information network are therefore affected.

In contrast, in a virtualized IT infrastructure, many and different instances of virtualized IT systems (guests) are usually brought together (consolidated) on a few physical machines. This significantly increases the impact on availability in case of a virtualization server failure. Damage to physical components of the virtualization server or a malfunction in its operating system will affect all virtual IT systems running on it.

If an IT system fails, the data processed by this system may be damaged. If necessary, a higher effort is made to put the system back into operation, since the data may need to be restored from the data backup. It may also have lost data irretrievably. If several virtual IT systems fail simultaneously due to a failure of a virtualization server, the likelihood that at least one of the failed systems will be affected by such damage increases. Therefore, in such a case, there may be a longer downtime than would have been the case if only one IT system had failed.

In data center operations, many services depend on each other. For example, a mail system needs a directory service to associate recipient addresses with the mailboxes. A job management system requires the mail system to process incoming and outgoing jobs. It also automatically creates orders in the merchandise management system to support the processing of sales orders. In addition, the inventory management system accesses the warehouse management database to monitor inventory levels.

The failure of individual components of the information network can lead to partial failure of services provided in the data center. If several IT systems are now operated as virtual IT systems on a virtualization server, several components of an information network fail together with the virtualization server. This can lead to a greater impairment of IT operations than would be the case in traditional, non-virtualized data center operations.



