#G 4.77 Resource bottlenecks caused by improper functioning of guest tools in virtual environments
For many virtualization products, so-called guest tools can be installed in the virtual IT systems. On the one hand, these serve to provide special, optimized device drivers for the virtual hardware components of a virtual machine. On the other hand, for certain products, the virtualization server can use these guest tools to control the resource consumption of a virtual IT system. This is especially necessary if the virtualization product used allows overbooking of resources such as memory or disk space. For example, if two virtual IT systems are competing for memory, the host operating system or hypervisor may direct the guest tools to allocate virtual RAM and hence its physical equivalent in one of the virtual IT systems. The physical representation of this memory is now not used by the virtual IT system and is under the control of the hypervisor via the guest tools. The hypervisor can now make this physical memory available to the other virtual IT system as virtual RAM. On the other hand, a virtual IT system can also request main memory via the guest tools. Such a technique is used for example in the product ESX of the manufacturer VMware. Here, the memory reservation is realized via a so-called Ballooning driver. This is included in the guest tools (VMware Tools).

Furthermore, with some virtualization products, access to resources can be restricted via the device drivers of the guest tools. For example, it is possible to limit the bandwidth with which a virtual IT system accesses the network or the storage network.

Because of their many functions, programming errors in the guest tools can have far-reaching consequences for the operation of the virtual IT systems affected, since a large number of IT systems are usually affected at the same time.



