#G 4.88 EMC-disabled power supply
Among other things, modern IT systems are increasingly characterized by the following three properties:

* extremely high networking
* extremely high clock rates
* very small signal levels


Exactly these three properties make modern IT networks increasingly susceptible to failures from power supply networks which are not suitable for EMC, ie those which are not electromagnetically compatible. The main sources of disturbance are:

Structure of the power supply in the wrong network form (no TN-S system)

All other network forms, except TN-S systems and TT systems with good transient earths, promote the occurrence of currents on the PE system.

Inadmissible currents on the PE system and inadmissible inductive coupling due to non-EMC-compliant control cabinet design

Currents on the PE system impair the data transmission on copper-bound data lines and lead to premature failure of technical equipment.

Excessively high levels of interference frequencies from 150 Hz up into the 100 kHz range

Not only the usually considered harmonics up to 1 kHz or 2 kHz, but also the far higher interference frequencies can massively impair the data transmission and the function of IT equipment.

Electromagnetic fields due to improper cable routing

Electromagnetic fields cause currents on electrically conductive systems, which are not supposed to flow there, and can cause damage in all areas of IT.

Incorrect adaptation to the actual effect factor (in short also cos phi or cosine phi) of the supplied consumers

Many power supply systems, including any existing power supply systems (NEA) and UPS systems are still designed for the supply of inductive loads, while the vast majority of all IT devices ensure a highly capacitive load behavior in the network. As a result of this mismatch, in addition to high power losses, there are also incalculable failures of power generators (NEA and UPS) and consumers.

Non-existent information about the current operating state of the power supply system, in particular about the correctness of the TN-S system

Without sufficient knowledge of all operating states of the power supply system in real time, emerging problems can not be detected. Without a record of this real-time data, it is almost impossible to determine and correct the actual cause of damage.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



