#G 4.1 Failure of the power supply
Despite high security of supply, there are always interruptions of the power supply by the distribution system operators (VNB) or Energieversorgung (RU). The greatest number of these disturbances is so short, with times under one second, that man does not notice them. But even interruptions of more than 10 ms are suitable for disrupting the IT operation. In a measurement with about 60 measuring points in Germany in 1983 about 100 such nets were registered. Of these, five cases lasted up to one hour and more than one hour. These interruptions were based solely on disturbances in the supply network. In addition, there are interruptions due to disconnections in the case of work that has not been announced or due to cable damage during civil engineering work.

From the power supply not only the obvious, direct power consumers (PC, Beleuchtungusw.) Dependent. All infrastructures are today directly or indirectly dependent on electricity, eg. B.Aufz ge, pneumatic tube systems, air conditioning, alarm systems, security locks, automatic T rschlie anlagen, sprinkler systems, telephone PBX systems. Even the water supply in high-rise buildings is dependent on the power required for generating pressure in the upper floors pumps.

The liberalization of the electricity market led to a deterioration in the supply level in some industrialized countries. In Germany, too, the danger could arise that problems would arise as a result of power supply failures or switching operations at national supply centers.



## Examples 
* In a large German industrial plant, the entire power supply was interrupted for several hours because of technical problems with the power company. As a result, both the production and all the computers of the development departments that had no spare power supply failed.
* Due to an error in the UPS of a data center, it did not switch back to normal operation after a short power failure. After discharging the batteries after about 40 minutes, all computers in the affected server room fell out.
* In early 2001, there were over 40 days a power emergency in California. The power supply was so tight there that the California Grid Monitoring Authority ordered rotating power cuts. These power cuts, which lasted up to 90 minutes, affected not only households but also the high-tech industry. Because with the power failure also alarm systems and security cameras were turned off, the utilities kept their shut-off plans secret.
* In November 2005, after heavy snowfalls in Lower Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia, many communities were without electricity for days on end because many high-voltage pylons had been destroyed under the snow and ice load. The restoration of the power supply took several days.




