#G 4.26 Failure of a database
The failure of a database is shown to the user mostly by a lack of response of the database management system (DBMS), which should represent the data of the database. The failure can be due to planned events, such. B. Maintenance work, or have been caused by unforeseeable events. To the latter area belongs. B.Hardware, software or network problems. Product errors, force majeure, negligence or sabotage can be causes of such database failures, for example.

If a database is no longer available for a user or an application, this can have far-reaching consequences, depending on the purpose and the importance of the database. All applications that depend on the data in the database can only be restricted or not used at all. The users of such applications can only partly or no longer perform their tasks, if they can not fulfill them by other means. Depending on the nature of the tasks, which can only be performed by means of IT support using the database, the following consequences are possible, among others:

* economic damage,
* health damage,
* Loss of confidence in customers or partners due to non-performance of agreed services or
* restricted or complete ability to act.




## Examples 
* Electronic archives are based on a database in which all archived documents are indexed. If this index database fails, archived documents can not be retrieved or searched. Thus, if at all, only a very limited operation of the archive is possible.
* The contents as well as all additional information of a regularly published publication were completely relocated to a database. Since at least one reading access to this database is required for all work in the responsible unit, it is no longer possible to work on the content without the correct functioning of this database. After the database was shut down due to scheduled maintenance, unforeseen delays occurred later, leaving the database unavailable for longer than planned. The unit could, because there was no substitute database, work a very limited amount of time for a whole week.
* An openly available database is overloaded with an immense number of simultaneous incoming requests, making regulated access to the database almost impossible.




