#G 4.99 Lack of or insufficient security mechanisms in applications
Note: The same is covered in G.4.22 Software vulnerabilities or errors, and in G.4.39 Software designation errors.

In many applications, the focus was not on information security during development, so that often the necessary security mechanisms are missing or insufficient. In addition, existing security mechanisms may be poorly designed, implemented or unreliable and may not provide adequate protection. In addition, after initial installation, applications are often preconfigured to have no or only a few security mechanisms enabled.

Depending on the type of application, its environment of use and the protection requirements of the data processed with it, various safety functionalities may be required and may be inadequate. In the following some unfortunately very typical weak points are mentioned by way of example:

* No user separation: this allows anyone with access to an application to access all stored data.
* Insufficient access protection and authentication mechanisms: Unfortunately, there are always applications that do not offer any access protection mechanisms at all. In addition, weaknesses that have a negative impact on security are found with existing authentication mechanisms (see also G.4.33 Poor or missing authentication methods and mechanisms). Thus, the mechanism strength in an authentication may be insufficient. For example, the password selection may be limited to four digits.
* No or inadequate ways to encrypt data
* Use of insecure crypto algorithms (see also G 4.35 Unsafe cryptographic algorithms)
* No or insufficient logging capabilities
* Unsafe Preferences: Security features commonly found in applications such as authentication and encryption are turned off, and passwords or PINs are set to default values ??(0000, 1234, and so on).
* No precautions have been taken in the application against known attacks and attacks intended for the intended purpose. Examples include web applications with database connectivity, which are not or insufficiently protected against injection attacks (see also G 5.131 SQL injection) or cross-site request forgery / cross-site scritping.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



