#G 4.42 Failure of the mobile phone, smartphones, tablets or PDAs
The use of a mobile phone, smartphone, tablet or PDA can be negatively affected by various factors:

* The battery may be dead because it was forgotten to charge it or because the device has been used heavily. The battery may be dead because it was forgotten to charge it.
* The battery may have lost its ability to store energy.
* The user has forgotten the access password or the PIN and therefore can not use the device or it will be deleted after the access password or the PIN has been repeatedly entered incorrectly.
* Components such as the display, buttons or SIM card may be defective.


If a mobile phone, smartphone, tablet or PDA is exposed to damaging environmental conditions, its functionality may be impaired. For example, the devices may suffer from both high and low temperatures, as well as dust or moisture. If a mobile phone or PDA is exposed to damaging environmental conditions, its functionality may be impaired. Mobile phones and PDAs can suffer from both high and low temperatures, as well as dust or moisture.



## Examples 
* On a long train journey, an employee worked on his smartphone to present a presentation. To clarify the details of the content, it was sent back and forth between him and a colleague in the company several times by e-mail. However, since the battery life is heavily dependent on usage and data services in particular require a lot of battery power, the battery had almost gone unnoticed. On a later important phone call, the device automatically switched off and could only be put back into operation in the hotel room hours later.
* A tablet is left behind in a parked car. This not only increases the risk of theft, but it is also exposed to potentially damaging environmental influences. Direct sunlight can cause temperatures above 60 C behind a pane of glass in the summer. A similar problem exists in winter, when in parked cars temperatures can be well below freezing. Such extreme temperatures can damage the battery or the display.
* On a business trip, an older PDA occasionally ran out of power because the replacement batteries were used too late. After restarting, however, many configuration settings have been lost because they were not backed up automatically by the operating system. As a result, some applications such as e-mail and Internet access will no longer work properly. On a business trip, the PDA ran out of power in between because the replacement batteries were used too late. After restarting, however, many configuration settings have been lost because they were not backed up automatically by the operating system. As a result, some applications such as e-mail and Internet access will no longer work properly.




