#G 4.10 Complexity of accessibility to networked IT systems
In contrast to stand-alone systems, where essentially the login process is responsible for access control and thus can only be corrupted by bad or missing passwords, there are many complex processes on network computers. which allow the most diverse types of access. For example, on Unix, the sendmail daemon allows the insertion of texts (e-mails) into the network computer; the FTP daemon does not even allow for a somewhat limited login, which may not even be possible under some circumstances password protected, the TELNET daemon a complete login.

Modern server systems avoid the transmission of plain text passwords for security reasons. However, this protection mechanism is undermined by the use of services such as FTP or Telnet, since plaintext passwords are used again here.

Apart from the fact that all of these processes can pose a security gap due to a wrong or faulty configuration, the probability that one of these processes is a security-relevant programming error is, of course, significantly greater due to its size.

There are many different ways to connect a single OS system to internal and public networks. Accesses via SNA and TCP / IP, for example FTP, Telnet or browser, are possible. Many of the network features known from Unix installations can be used under the Unix System Services of z / OS. This variety of connection options makes a reliable network configuration of the z / OS systems very complex.

Cloud services also often offer a variety of different access paths (for example, access via a browser or via dedicated tools) and different authentication options (for example, single login or federation services). The access paths and functions are often not transparent to the user and involve the risk of containing undetected vulnerabilities.



## Examples 
* An external attacker managed to find the user ID and password for a highly authorized application under OS / OS. Although the identifier did not have a TSO segment, the attacker was able to bring a batch job via the FTP directly into the JES2 and execute it. Since the job output could also be read over FTP, this allowed access to confidential data.
* The client needed to use a cloud service uses an authentication token provided by the cloud service to different clients. A new application will be authorized to use this token due to a configuration error. This allows the application to access the cloud service without authorization.




