#G 4.2 Failure of internal supply networks
There are a number of networks in a building that are used for supply and disposal and thus as a basis for all business processes of an institution including the IT. The failure of supply networks such as:

* Electricity,
* Phone and
* Khlung


can affect a variety of tasks. However, such a failure can also lead to an immediate disruption of IT operations. On the other hand, if there is a breakdown in the areas:

* Heating or ventilation,
* Water,
* Lschwasserspeisungen,
* Sewage,
* Pneumatic tube,
* Gas,
* Reporting and control systems (burglary, fire, home automation) and
* intercoms


Under certain circumstances, time-delayed faults may occur.

The networks are dependent on each other in different degrees, so that operational disruptions in each individual network can have an impact on others.



## Examples 
* The failure of the power supply affects not only dasITdirekt, but also all other networks that are equipped with electrically operated control technology. Even in drains, electric lift pumps may be present.
* The failure of the water supply may affect the function of air conditioners.
* A prolonged power outage led to the total failure of multiple storage systems in the backup data center of a hosting service provider. The reason was that the air conditioning system was not connected to the mains power supply (NEA) and no adequate remote monitoring of the supplying technology of the DC was established. Thus, the IT systems continued via NEA supply without cooling air circulation. Several hundred hard drives had to be replaced as a total loss.




