#G 4.87 Disclosure of confidential information in web applications
Web pages and data generated and delivered by a web application may contain sensitive information that is not required for the use of the web application, such as information about the product and version status of frameworks. This information can provide an attacker with clues about how to make targeted attacks on the web application. So, when information is unnecessarily exposed, it can facilitate an attack. In this case, information can also be transmitted via less obvious transmission paths, for example in the HTTP or SOAP header.



## Examples 
* Detailed information is provided about security mechanisms or attributes that are not necessary for a user of the web application, but provide hints for potential attacks, for example, please enter the 6-digit numeric PIN instead of Please enter the PIN , Based on this information, an attacker could limit the possible drawing space in a brute-force attack and thus find a valid PIN faster.
* Comments, for example in the HTML source code, may include information about known errors, functionalities, techniques used and the attached infrastructure. As a result, an attacker can specifically search for and exploit vulnerabilities in the web application and infrastructure. If, for example, the access data used in the development phase for a database are mentioned in comments, attackers may also use them in the productive operation of the web application for unauthorized access.
* Files with an unknown file extension, for example temporary files with .tmp or backup files with .bak from scripts of the web application, are delivered by the web application in the source code. In this way, confidential information such as hard-coded access data can be read out. In addition, attackers can examine programs from disclosed code for vulnerabilities.
* If an attacker has the necessary information to create XML messages within a transport container, he or she can test whether certain parameters are transmitted within a message, for example inREST, SOAP, ZIP. The error messages returned by the service provider may contain useful information for an attack, for example information about the framework used, program libraries or internal system structures. In addition, if necessary, the attacker can determine via error codes whether entries are checked or certain actions are performed unfiltered. If no filtering takes place, he can perform so-called injection attacks. These pose a significant threat to the backend applications (see G 5.143 Man-in-the-Middle Attack).




