#G 4.32 Non-delivery of a message
Data exchange via e-mail is quick and convenient, but not always reliable. Due to hardware or software errors in the IT systems involved or disruptions in the transmission path, it always comes back to news loss. The technical problems can have a variety of causes, eg. For example, cables may be damaged, network couplers may fail, or communication software may be misconfigured. E-mails can also be lost if the recipient's address is not specified correctly. The biggest problem is that users are often not informed if an e-mail could not be delivered. So it can not be trusted that a message has reached the recipient, as long as no problems are displayed.

Many e-mail programs offer options such as confirm delivery or confirm receipt. Corresponding feedback should not be overestimated. On the one hand, the delivery confirmations are often not triggered by the arrival of an e-mail at the workstation of the recipient, but by the arrival at a mail server. Whether the mail server has successfully forwarded the e-mail to the addressee is then no longer communicated. On the other hand, there is often no delivery confirmation, even though the e-mail was transmitted correctly if this option is not supported by the recipient site.

The problem of messages not being delivered also occurs with short messages from mobile phones. If the recipient can not be reached because he is in a radio hole or is staying abroad without roaming, the text message will not be delivered. For a while, the service then tries to resend the SMS. However, as soon as the network operator has preset the duration of the short message, it is even completely deleted and can no longer reach the receiver even if it is ready to receive again.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



