#G 4.35 Unsafe cryptographic algorithms
The gain in security through the use of cryptographic methods is fundamentally dependent on two parameters: secure cryptographic algorithms must be used and the secret keys must be handled confidentially (for compromising cryptographic keys, see G 5.83 Compromise cryptographic key).

Unsafe cryptographic algorithms are characterized in that a potential attacker with reasonable resources manages to break the cryptographic method used. For encryption algorithms, this means that it is possible to extract the original plaintext from the encrypted text, without the need for additional information. Here are as relevant resources on the attacker side. B. the available computing power, tools such as analysis tools, existing knowledge, available working time, knowledge of vulnerabilities, etc. to take into account. So if insecure cryptographic algorithms are used, attackers have the option of undermining cryptographic protection.

However, whether a cryptographic algorithm is uncertain must be investigated on a case-by-case basis. However, there are some criteria that suggest uncertainties:

* If symmetric encryption methods use secret keys whose effective length is less than 100 bits, they can be broken today with moderate computer use by trying out all potentially possible keys. With increasing computing power, it can be assumed that this limit will rise above 100 bits in the future.
* If algorithms are used in asymmetric encryption and signature processes whose security is based on the problem of factoring large numbers, it is now believed that key sequences of less than 2000 bits are to be regarded as unsafe. This is due to the progress in the development of efficient factorization algorithms, which today allow factorization of numbers around 800-900 bit length under massive computer use.
* Hash functions that map an arbitrarily long string to a constant bit length hash value can be considered unsafe if the constant length of the hash value is less than 200 bits, since otherwise two character strings can be determined give the same hash value.
* Cryptographic algorithms designed by inexperienced developers and not explored in the scientific community should be considered potentially insecure, as the development of secure cryptographic algorithms requires many years of experience.
* Unpublished cryptographic algorithms, which run very fast in software, should also be considered as potentially insecure. Experience shows that secure algorithms usually have to be based on complex mathematical functions.
* When using cryptographic methods frequently random numbers are required. Poor random number generators can lead to predictable values. This can z. B. cryptographic checksums, which should ensure the message integrity, worthless.


For example, the world's most widely used DES symmetric encryption algorithm is affected by these criteria. This uses an effective key length of 56 Bit. The so-called triple-DES algorithm as a triple consecutive execution with two keys has an effective key length of 112 Bit and can currently be regarded as sufficiently secure. Also affected is the RSA algorithm, which is based on the factorization problem as an asymmetric method. IfRSA is operated with a key length below 1024 Bit, it must be assumed that this does not provide sufficient security. For the next few years, a key length of at least 2000 Bit can still be considered sufficiently secure.

The hash algorithm MD5 is outdated and has known weaknesses, which could already be demonstrated by practical examples. The hash algorithm SHA-1 is no longer suitable for all purposes.

A common example of unsafe but very fast algorithms is the so-called XOR function, in which constant values ??are linked to the original plaintext in a simple way. This is a high-performance algorithm, but it can be broken very quickly. On the other hand, the XOR function can be the safest encryption algorithm ever if the data to be encrypted is XORed with unpredictable random values ??(one-time pad).

For the layman, it is virtually impossible to determine if a cryptographic algorithm is sufficiently secure. Therefore, only those algorithms should be used that are known to have been developed by experts or that have been subjected to a long-term study by the scientific scene.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



