#G 5.72 Abusive groupware usage
The misuse of groupware systems can be at various points, in the users, in the internal network, in one of the transmitting groupware or mail servers or in the recipient of messages.

If access to the groupware applications is not sufficiently protected among the users or the groupware system of an institution, an unauthorized person can gain unauthorized access for manipulative purposes. In addition to the transfer costs, damage can also result from an unauthorized person claiming to be the claimant.

Likewise, it must be prevented that information in closed groupware systems can be read by unauthorized persons. Confidential information can become known, lose value or be used to the detriment of the recipient.



## Examples 
* A departmental head left his office for a short time with an unsecured IT system on which the groupware program had already started and for which he had already authenticated himself. A colleague, who happened to drop by, thought it was a good joke to send quotes or work orders to other colleagues under his e-mail address.
* An employee used his official e-mail address to spread private views that could damage his employer's reputation.
* In order to avoid frequently having to re-enter frequently recurring e-mail addresses, the alias name can be assigned a spelling notation for e-mail addresses or it can be used to create Distribution lists allow you to conveniently select a larger group of recipients. If such alias names or distribution lists are changed without authorization, the forwarding of an e-mail to a desired recipient can be prevented or forwarded to an undesired recipient. Particularly vulnerable are alias files or address books, which are centrally managed.




