#G 5.171 Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF, XSRF, Session Riding)
If writing actions of a web application can be used without further verification of the authenticity of the HTTP request (eg, through tokens in hidden form fields), an attacker may provide the user with a prefixed link to execute a command bermitteln.

For example, the link may be communicated to a user requesting execution using social engineering methods (eg, as a link in an e-mail). If the user is logged into a web application with an existing session and follows this prefixed link, the submitted command will be executed by the web application. The web application interprets the HTTP request as a user-aware action. Behind such a link privileged commands such as changing the access data or creating a new user can be concealed. The user may be hidden from the process, and only a message about the action taken is displayed.

In contrast to XSS (see G 5.170 Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)), the target of attack is not the execution of script code, but of unauthorized, writing actions in the context of the logged in user.

With a combination of CSRF and XSS, it is possible to unnoticeably control the client by executing scripts, eliminating the need for user interaction. Instructions in the script can be z. B. automate a redirect to a prepared link.

Example:

* While a user is logged in to the administration interface of a router, he surfs the Internet simultaneously with the same browser. Through a prepared link on a web page, a request to change the access password will be sent to the router. In this case, the browser automatically sends the session cookie, via which the web application verifies the authenticity of the request and makes the change. Since the user is logged on to the administration interface with a valid session, the command is executed and the access password is changed to an unknown password.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



