#G 5.13 Listening to rooms via TK terminals
In principle, rooms can also be listened to via microphones in terminals. There are two variants. In the first variant, the threat is from a terminal. Here are intelligent devices with built-in microphones such as multimedia PCs, PDAs, mobile phones, but also answering machines to call. Such devices, if appropriate functionality is implemented, may be induced from the public network or via the LAN to activate the built-in microphones (see also Fig. 5.40 Listening to rooms using a computer with microphone and camera). A well-known example of this is the so-called baby-watch function of telephones or answering machines.

In the second variant, the functionality of a TC system is used in conjunction with appropriately equipped terminals. This risk arises from the improper use of the feature direct response in combination with the option Handsfree. Under certain circumstances, the function of an intercom system that can be implemented in this way can also be used to listen to a room. Normally, a short, one-time warning sound is emitted when the microphone is activated. However, warnings can be prevented by a corresponding configuration. Anyone who is able to administer a PBX, could in this case any room in which a suitably equipped phone is available, from any terminal with access to the PBX or the plant network depended ren.

The use of VoIP softphones results in a further hazard scenario. These applications allow the use of a multimedia PC as a telephone terminal. The multimedia PC is usually also used for other tasks, for example, to surf the Internet. Because a microphone is needed for voice messaging, it could be activated by malicious software and the environment of the PC could be intercepted.

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



