#G 5.80 Hoax
A hoax (English for prank, trick, false alarm) is a message that contains a warning about new spectacular computer viruses or other IT problems and spreads panic, but is not based on real technical facts. Most such messages are distributed via e-mails. For example, it warns against computer viruses that can cause hardware damage or that can lead to infections and damage by simply opening an e-mail (not an attachment) and the can not be detected by any antivirus software. In addition to this warning, you are asked to forward the warning to friends and acquaintances. Such a hoax becomes even more effective if a falsified address is specified as the sender, such as that of a well-known manufacturer.

Such a hoax should not be confused with a computer virus that can actually manipulate the IT system. Rather, it is a misleading message that can and should be deleted without damage. The only harm done by a hoax is the uncertainty and irritation of the recipients and possibly the cost of time and money for the hoax to be forwarded.

There have been a number of such hoax messages in the area of ??mobile telephony, which have warned that entering a certain number of key combinations or dialing certain numbers on mobile phones could lead to call-offs or at the expense of others to talk on the phone. The appearance of certain mobile phone brands and some technical expressions gives the appearance of Seriosit t. Such rumors persist and unsettle the users.



## Examples 
* In the spring of 2000, the following hoax circulated via e-mail (and sometimes even by letter): If you receive a message on your mobile phone that you want to call back at 0141-455xxx, do not respond. Their bill is so vast that it is immeasurable. This information was issued by the Central Repression Service (Office Central de Repression du Banditisme).




