#G 5.126 Unauthorized photo and film recordings with mobile devices
Many mobile devices are now equipped with built-in cameras, such as laptops, smartphones or mobile phones. As a rule, it is also possible to record films with these cameras. Such mobile terminals can easily be used to unobtrusively take photographs or film recordings in business-critical areas (for example in a development department). The picture quality usually reaches the quality of ordinary small format cameras.

As with general data theft (see  5.125 Data Theft Using Mobile Devices), the images taken can be immediately sent outside and then deleted from the device. In this case, even if someone suspects evidence may be possible only with forensic methods. If applications of social networks or video portals such as YouTube are installed on a smartphone, the images and videos just created can also be published on the Internet. Apart from the copyright problem, valuable data can be passed on quickly to unauthorized persons. Persons and institutions can suffer a loss of image through compromising images.



## Examples 
* In many swimming pools and sports studios no photo phones can be taken in the meantime, because there were various complaints about secretly taken photos from dressing rooms. Among other things, this was public, as some hobby paparazzi have proudly presented their photos on websites.
* Many laptop models have a built-in microphone as well as a small integrated camera, which can be used depending on the design for still images, video or webcam. With such cameras, it is not only possible to record legibly from the back rows of a hall, but also to record the speaker in a very audible manner. Even interrogative questions can be recorded surprisingly well. Since the devices are not perceived as a camera, it has come here to unpleasant surprises, as subsequently unauthorized recordings were published.




