#G 5.153 DNS amplification attack
A DNS amplification attack is a denial-of-service (DoS) attack. In a DoS attack, an attempt is made to put one or more services into a disabled state due to congestion. In contrast to DNS flooding (G 5.151 DNS-Flooding - Denial-of-Service), it is not the DNS server to which the requests are made that is the target, but the recipient of the replies.

It is exploited that certain requests generate a relatively large amount of response data. It is possible to achieve an amplification factor of 50 and more. This means that the response, measured in bytes, is 50 times greater than the request. Due to the number and size of the answers, the network bandwidth or the computer itself is overloaded beyond the power capacity. Thus, any technical IT component can be the target.



## Examples 
* One company (the attack target) operates a central security gateway. This security gateway is the only connection point between the internal network and the Internet. The attacker is now abusing the DNS servers of some companies to perform a DNS amplification attack against the security gateway of the attack target. For this purpose, the attacker uses a botnet to continuously generate a large amount of requests. In addition, it uses IP spoofing (G 5.48 IP spoofing) to enter the IP address of the security gateway as the sender address, which sends all replies to it. The large amount of data overloads the security gateway, so the attacked company is cut off from the Internet. A possible side effect is that the DNS servers surveyed are overloaded.




