#G 5.140 Evaluation of residual information in printers, copiers and multifunction devices
Many digital copiers, printers and multifunction devices are equipped with a large internal memory. If a document is to be issued more than once, it is sufficient to only read in the source document once or to transfer it to the device. The document is digitized (if it is not already digital) stored in the memory of the device and can be reproduced directly from there.

There are two types of memory: volatile and non-volatile memory. With volatile memories, the data is deleted as soon as no supply voltage is applied. In contrast, the stored information is stored permanently in non-volatile memories, so they can also be read out after a switch-off. Examples of non-volatile memory are hard disks and flash memory.

Depending on the mode of operation and the configuration of the device, the memory contents can be deleted on various events. This may already be possible when reading in the next document, but also only when memory is needed.

If information has been stored in memory, unauthorized persons may be able to access it. In the simplest case, it is only possible to print the last saved document. More problematic is when attackers can read the entire memory to analyze its contents.

Even if the stored information is deleted immediately after use, the erased data may be reconstructed. Not every device overwrites the deleted data after deleting. Such overwriting would make the recovery of deleted data much more difficult.

Frequently, digital copiers or printers are only rented. After a predetermined period, the device will be returned and possibly replaced with a more recent one. All subsequent owners of the device could gain access to still existing information in memory.

Stand: 9. EL Stand 2007



