#G 5.88 Abuse of active content
Active contents are program parts or scripts that are executed in the browser. Widely used types of active content include JavaScript, Java applets, ActiveX elements, Flashetc.These are often used to make websites more interactive, to create special graphic effects, or to embed multimedia content.

On the other hand, however, active content may also have been deliberately created for the purpose of spying on sensitive data, manipulating it, or infecting the computer with malicious programs. Also attacks on the availability of the respective client are possible. Current browsers include security mechanisms that limit the accessibility of active content. However, there are always weaknesses and opportunities known to undermine these security mechanisms.

The following aspects contribute to the risk of security issues when running active content:

* Active content can be loaded from the web and executed without the users being actively involved. Often the execution is not recognizable for the users.
* Active content can communicate with computers on the Internet using standard network protocols such as SMTP. In this way, for example, confidential information can be forwarded to unauthorized persons.
* Different types of active content have different ways to access the resources of the operating system and hardware.


Unlike Java and JavaScript, the functionality of ActiveX controls is hardly limited. The controls can run directly on the computer and have access to the hardware and the operating system. Because of these diverse accessibility options, running ActiveX components carries a high risk.

By presetting the browser accordingly, a user can ensure that only digitally signed ActiveX controls are executed. However, such a valid signature proves only that the manufacturer of the ActiveX control is known to a certification authority and that the control provided by this manufacturer has been loaded unchanged. As a result, nothing is said about the functionality or safety of such a control and no warranty for it.

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



