#G 5.31 Unauthorized reading of faxes
When using fax machines, there is a risk of unauthorized reading of received faxes when the devices are set up in freely accessible areas. In addition, unauthorized persons may gain knowledge of the content of confidential fax transmissions if the distribution within the organization is faulty.

The use of fax servers is an unauthorized acknowledgment of incoming and outgoing faxes u. U. possible, provided the access rights on the fax server are not assigned with care.

Fax servers also have so-called address books. The address books make it easier to send faxes, since users only have to select the respective recipient and not have to reenter the recipient's phone number for each fax. If an incorrect recipient number is entered in an address book, the fax is sent to the wrong recipient when using this entry. Frequently, address books also offer the option of grouping several addressees into one group. The user who wants to send a fax to the members of such a group, needs as a recipient only the group and not each group member to specify. If there are unauthorized addressees in such a group, this knowledge can be obtained from all fax transmissions that are sent via this group definition. The wrong assignment can be due to inattention or due to a targeted manipulation.

Faxes received on a fax server must be distributed to the recipients. This can be done either by printing inbound faxes and forwarding them manually to the recipients, or by allowing the fax server to automatically distribute over the network.

An unauthorized acknowledgment of received faxes is u. U. in the case of manual distribution, if the printer on which the printout is made is located in a generally accessible area or the distribution within the organization is incorrect.

For the automatic forwarding of fax transmissions, the fax server requires an assignment table which specifies to which user or user group incoming fax transmissions, eg. originated from a specific sender or sent via a specific phone number, should be forwarded. If an unauthorized person is included in such an assignment table -if it is due to carelessness or deliberate manipulation- he receives faxes that are not intended for him.

Status: as of 2005



