#G 5.11 Confidentiality loss of data stored in PBXs
In PBXs, personal and internal data are stored for a long time, for example on hard disks or memory cards. Personal data includes, for example, fee data, configuration data, authorizations and electronic telephone books, passwords and billing numbers. For billing purposes, PBXs can often record connection records that contain at least information about the called party number, the time of the call, and the length of the call. From this, communication profiles for individual terminals or users can be derived. Connection data are therefore of interest to unauthorized persons and must be protected against unauthorized access.

When operating VoIP-PBXs, voice information can also be logged very efficiently, since these are already available digitally. For example, all telephone calls made can be completely stored on hard disks and copied to another system for evaluation. There is a risk that such logging of the telephone calls may be inadvertently activated and misused for attacks on confidentiality.

Many telecommunications applications work with personal data and may pass it on to other applications. Particularly noteworthy are unified messaging systems, where the effects of a loss of confidentiality due to the central collection of different message types can be serious.

The stored data could be viewed and changed by the TK administration staff. The nature and extent of these interventions depend on the type of plant and, if provided, on the assignment of rights. The administration personnel have this option both on site and via remote maintenance. In the case of external remote maintenance, the person authorized to do so (usually the manufacturer or a service provider) always has this option.

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



