#G 5.169 Insufficient Session Management of Web Applications and Web Services
Because the HTTP Web protocol and Web services protocol is stateless, an additional mechanism is needed to identify the user for the duration of a session. Web applications typically use session IDs in the form of a cookie. For web services, the standard WS-SecureConversation can alternatively be used. Here, sessions are represented as a so-called security context, which in turn can be referenced via a session ID within a security context token. This standard also includes mechanisms for transport security, which is typically implemented in Web applications over SSberSSL / TSL.

If a third party can determine the session ID due to inadequate session management, they may use the web application or the web service in the context of that session. This means, for example, that an attacker can interact with the web application as a legitimate authenticated user without knowing the actual credentials (username, password).

The functionality of the web application or of the web service can thus be used by third parties with the rights of the legitimate user in order to access unauthorized access to sensitive data or to execute commands.

The following examples describe scenarios that could lead to a compromised session.

* In a session fixation attack, an attacker first assigns a session ID from the web application and submits it to the victim (for example, via a link in an email). If the victim follows this link and subsequently authenticates itself to the web application with the attack ID transmitted by the attacker, then the attacker can use the application with the session ID known to him. In this way, he is able to access the web application in the security context of the attacked user and thus to use functions that are not available to an unauthorized user.


* In the case of a session hijacking attack, the victim is already logged in to the web application or the web service with a valid session ID. If the session ID is not chosen randomly (for example, simply incrementing a counter when assigning session IDs), an attacker can guess valid session IDs by specific experimentation and take over the corresponding sessions of the logged-in users.


* If sessions of inactive users of a web application or a web service do not automatically become invalid after a certain time interval (session timeout), the sessions will continue to be held by users who are not properly logged out of the application (for example, browser closure) valid at. If an attacker becomes aware of such a valid but no longer used session ID or access token, he or she can continue to use the web application in the security context of the unregistered user.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



