#G 5.85 Integrity loss of valuable information
Integrity is the requirement that information must be unaffected. This means that no unauthorized changes to the information may be made. Integrity also means that a total of data is consistent, ie. H. that relationships of the data with each other can be correctly resolved and that the actuality of all data meets the expectations of the users.

In addition to confidentiality and availability, integrity is one of the basic values ??of information security.

If data is no longer integer, it can come to a variety of problems:

* In the simplest case, data can no longer be read, ie further processed.
* Data may be accidentally or intentionally mislaid to mislead the user. As a result, for example, transfers in the wrong amount or to the wrong recipient can be triggered, the sender details of e-mails could be manipulated or much more.
* Based on false, incomplete or outdated data, wrong business decisions can be made with far-reaching consequences.
* If encrypted or compressed data sets lose their integrity - and here the change in one bit is enough - they may be lost. U. no longer be decrypted or unpacked.
* The same is true for cryptographic keys, and here too the change of one bit is enough to make the keys unusable. This also leads to the fact that data can no longer be decrypted or checked for authenticity.
* By manipulating stored cryptographic certificates z. B. Authentication or signature procedures are undermined and thus malicious software in protected environments brought to execution or encrypted tunnels are interrupted (man-in-the-middle attack).
* Evaluations of datasets fail because references are no longer correct or contradictory data sets result.
* Personal data can be transmitted to wrong recipients (privacy policy). In the case of false personal data, the data subjects have a legal claim for correction.
* Documents stored in electronic archives lose their weight of evidence if their integrity can not be proven. There can be a loss of integrity in various ways:
* The aging of data media can lead to information losses.


* Data transmission may cause transmission errors.


* Malware programs can be used to modify or destroy entire databases.


* Incorrect entries can lead to undesirable transactions that are often not noticed for a long time.
* Attackers could try to manipulate data for their own purposes. B. to gain access to other IT systems or databases.


* By deliberate sabotage z. For example, control data for industrial plants can be modified so that major consequential damage results from the destruction of machinery or goods. The damage can be used with considerable time delay (eg by consciously increased wear) and can then be very difficult to associate with the manipulation as the cause of the error.


* Log data or timestamps can be deliberately misused to conceal attacks and manipulation.
* By manipulating the index database, electronic archives can be prompted to archive or play back documents that have been found.


Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



