#G 5.156 Botnets
A bot is a program that an attacker installs on a user's machine without its knowledge, such as a computer. For example, malicious software that can remotely execute instructions from the attacker. If many bots are merged, a bot net develops.

Botnets are used for many illegal activities. Mass mailings of spam emails or e-mails with malicious attachments and links (eg for phishing) as well as the recording of keystrokes (key logging) and, consequently, the theft or theft Theft of personal information such as (passwords, PIN, etc.) or confidential business information (commercial espionage) are areas of application of botnets. In addition, computers infected with bots can be abused in order to place illegal software there or even offer it via the infected computers, eg. via file sharing. A particularly serious form of attack for networks and services are so-called DDoS attacks (DDoS, Distributed Denial of Service). DDoS attacks are undertaken for political, ideological, but mostly financial reasons.

Simplified, the typical structure of a botnet is as follows:

* The bot master (also Bot Herder) develops a bot client. Using the Internet, he uses an existing security vulnerability to infect the PC of an end user.
* The bot client connects to the command and control server (C & C server).
* The bot master updates the bot client with new attacks and instructions.
* The bot scans a random IP address range for vulnerabilities and infects other computers.
* Infected computers, in turn, connect to the Command and Control server and take commands.




## Examples 
* The botnet Zeus consisted of more than 100,000 hijacked computers, mainly in Spain and Poland, and was compiled using the low-cost bot network toolkit Zeus. Above all, the botnet Zeus collected financial data, such as account or credit card data, and other confidential information. It was centrally controlled by a server. From this server, in April 2009, a kill operating system command was issued, which ensured that all computers connected to the bot network deleted important entries in the Windows registry file and the virtual memory of Windows was overwritten with zeros. The operating system could not be started in the sequence, so that the computers had to be completely reinstalled.
* Torpig is a Trojan horse that populates Windows operating systems and joins their computers into a bot network. In 2006 Torpig was sent as a executable file via e-mail, meanwhile it is distributed as script code on websites. The individual infected computers generated random domain names and search results from Twitter posts own domain names, from which they then reloaded malicious code and updates. The task of the botnet was to scan data for bank accounts, credit card data and FTP accounts. The collected information was transmitted to a central server. At the beginning of 2009, scientists were able to record and analyze bot network traffic for around 10 days. Torpig is said to have extracted data from more than 300,000 different accounts, including bank account details and credit card information from a wide range of credit institutions.




