#G 5.87 Web spoofing
In web spoofing, an attacker fakes an existing web page, d. h.er designs one of his own websites to look like the website of a well-known institution. The already existing website, which has been copied, will not be changed, but can still be accessed in its original form. Using various tricks, the attacker then tries to lure users into the website he has posted on the web.

For this purpose, for example, he chooses their web address so that many users assume that they are connected to a specific institution solely by the choice of address. For example, it can register a page where the hostname is the same as the original webpage, but the top-level domain has been exchanged. But he can also use an address that contains frequent typos or typos, luring users to the fake page.

Another possibility is to spread manipulated links. Different character phrases and similar looking letters can be used to create dazzling real-looking links. For example, numbers that look like letters at first glance or letters that resemble each other can be used. In addition to the barely recognizable difference between I (large i) and l (small L), similar looking letters can be used. An example of this is the Latin and Cyrillic spelling of the letter a, which looks the same on the monitor but is encoded differently.

Users can also see addresses that are different from those to which the link leads. For example, by using a HTML link, it is possible to display the URL of the trusted page, even though the link leads to a fake page. Likewise, username and password can be prefixed in the URL of the page name. Users who do not know this notation assume that they are directed to the web page specified as username / password, even though the hostname actually used is much further back in the URL.



## Examples 
* The XY Bank uses the URL www.xy-bank.de for its website. An attacker sets up a website under the URLs www.xybank.de or www.xy-bank.comeine, which at first glance resemble those of the XY Bank. In addition, he ensures that these addresses are found by XY customers via search engines.
* Users who access these pages will assume they are communicating with their bank's web server. Therefore, they are ready to enter their account number and PIN or other credentials.
* The whitehouse.com page has undergone a changeful history. Here was never, as many users initially suspected, the website of the American White House, but changing commercial or pornographic content.
* The two URLs www.BSI.bund.de and www.BSl.bund.de look identical, at least at first sight. Only when you look closely is it clear that only the first leads to the website of the Federal Office for Information Security. In the second link the big I was replaced by a small L.
* In a service-oriented architecture (SOA), an attacker fakes the identity of a service provider, e.g. By a manipulated URL with a domain similar to the name of a known company. Users assume that it is a trusted service provider and submit data to the service offered. Thus, an attacker receives confidential information from the service consumer, with which he can now use the real service.




