#G 5.100 Abuse of active content while accessing Lotus Notes / Domino
For Lotus Notes / Domino databases, active components can be defined that occur when certain events occur, such as entering data into defined fields. The active components exist. B. Lotus Script or Java programs and are called agents. Running an agent can, in turn, start other agents (for example, if one agent copies data to another database and that action causes the agent to run the target database). In general, a distinction can be made between server-side and client-side execution of agents, but both variants are always possible.

In addition, active content can be executed both in Lotus Notes clients and in browsers or external clients used to access Lotus Domino.

Thus, the possibility of an attack on the Lotus Notes / Domino platform by the introduction of harmful active content (malicious active content) is given. In many cases, this risk materializes only in the event of incorrect configuration of the Lotus Domino server or the client being used. These situations are described by the vulnerabilities G 3.46 Incorrect configuration of a Lotus Domino server and G 3.113 Incorrect configuration of a Lotus Notes client or a foreign client with access to Lotus Domino.

It is possible, however, that even if properly configured due to weaknesses in the scripting languages ??or software used (see G.4.22 Software Vulnerabilities or Errors), active content is misused. Likewise, it is possible that cascading execution of agents may lead to problems due to insufficiently modeled dependencies of active content without directly causing a faulty configuration.

A special case is the threat G 5.111 Misuse of active content in e-mails, which describes the special situation in which harmful active contents are introduced via e-mail.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



