#G 5.166 Abuse of a web application through automated use
In the automated operation of web applications, functions of the application are used computer-controlled, for. Through scripts that emulate keyboard and mouse input. This allows actions to be performed in a short time, allowing attackers to efficiently perform repetitive attacks against the web application. With the help of a repeated login process, eg. Valid combinations of user name and password are systematically determined (brute force) or lists with valid user names are generated (enumeration).

In addition, repeated invocation of resource-intensive functions (such as complex database queries) for application-level denial-of-service attacks can be abused. While network-level denial-of-service attacks often require many connection attempts, Web application-level attacks can often be more efficient.

Examples:

* If the form can be filled out and sent automatically in an online survey, an attacker can easily spoof the survey result by an automated voting script.


* The information about registered users (eg profile names and e-mail addresses) can be retrieved via an URL of the web application (for example, http: //host.tld/app/userDetails.php? UserID = # ##). If this function is called automatically (eg by simply incrementing the numerical UserID), a large amount of user information can be collected with little effort (enumeration). The collected information can be used, for example, for sending SPAM.


* If user accounts are blocked for 10 minutes after five failed logon attempts to make brute force attacks more difficult, and an attacker knows the web application's usernames, then automated logon attempts to those user accounts may be provoked. As a result, these user accounts are permanently locked and the web application can no longer be used by the users.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



