#G 5.79 Unauthorized acquisition of administrator rights under Windows systems
Each time you install a Windows NT-based system, a local administrator account is created. This affects both the client and server versions. Unlike self-created accounts, this local built-in administrator account can not be deleted or locked under Windows NT and Windows 2000. This is to prevent the administrator from being locked out accidentally or accidentally, thus making administration impossible. A problem in this context is that the predefined administrator account is not locked even if the number of invalid password entries entered in the account policy for a lock is exceeded. Without appropriate countermeasures this makes it possible to try out passwords on schedule with the help of special programs. Only from Windows XP or Windows Server 2003 is it possible to deactivate the local predefined administrator account. As of Windows Vista, this account is already disabled in a default installation. The account can still not be deleted.

There are other ways to gain access to an administrator account password to gain administrator privileges. If a Windows NT-based system is remotely administered, there is a risk that during the authentication process, the login password, depending on the authentication method used, is transmitted in plain text and can thus be recorded by an attacker. Although Windows Vista and Server 2008 already provide IPSec support during a default installation, encryption must be configured and enabled. Even if it is ensured by intervening in the system that the login passwords are encrypted only, it is possible for an attacker to record the encrypted password and decrypt it using the appropriate software. This is especially true for Windows NT when the older NTLM method is used. As of Windows 2000, a domain environment uses the Kerberos method by default, which is more robust against such attacks.

Furthermore, in Windows XP and Windows Server 2003, each password is encrypted in the registry and encrypted in a file located in the% SystemRoot% / System32 / Repair or% Systemroot% / Repair directory on the rescue disks and tape backups, if any , If an attacker gains possession of the file, he can use appropriate software to decrypt the required password. Windows versions from Vista and Server 2008 no longer have a repair directory.

With special malicious software, it is possible for an attacker to add any user account to the Administrators group on the Windows NT machine to which they are logged in locally, thereby giving the account holder administrator privileges.

Other examples of attacks for unauthorized access to administrative privileges are:

* Privilege escalation can also be exploited by exploiting vulnerabilities in programs or services that run with administrative or system privileges.
* Technical attacks can be used together with social engineering methods. For example, the local system can be manipulated with normal user rights and a keylogger installed. If an attacker then causes an administrator to log in, the keylogger records their username and password.
* Passwords could be overwritten using another boot medium (eg floppy disk / CD-ROM / USB memory).


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



