#G 5.134 Missing identification between participants
In both circuit-switched telephony and VoIP, the caller can often be identified by his telephone number. The called party can recognize the caller in his telephone display without having to accept the telephone call. Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) provides the option of signaling the telephone number via the CLIP (Calling Line Identification Presentation) and COLP (Connected Line Identification Presentation). With VoIP, this information can be determined via the Caller ID. Generalized this is called calling number display.

Very often the telephone number transmission is also used for authentication. A common example of this mechanism is that users can listen to their answering machine without having to enter their PIN or password.

An attacker could assign any telephone number to a telephone through changes to the switching telephone system, which will then be transmitted to the recipient. As a result, he can try to give his interviewee a false identity (see G 5.42 Social Engineering).

Many phones include an incognito feature. The caller can activate this function if he wants to prevent his own telephone number from being displayed on the called party's display. The telephone number of the caller still has to be transmitted for the connection. The telephone exchange to which the called party is connected decides after this indication whether the telephone number is being transmitted to the called party. By properly programming the telephone exchange, the incognito function can be ignored without the users knowing it.

In homogenous VoIP networks, in which only telephone over the data net, these problems do not occur in this form, since no incognito functionality is intended. In practice, however, homogeneous VoIP networks are very rare. In general, the local networks are connected to a corresponding gateway, which allows communication with users of other telephone systems. Therefore, the above problems may occur between the gateway and the receiver of the telephone conversation.

Within the network in which calls are made via VoIP, the subscribers are assigned on the basis of their IP addresses (or MAC addresses). A port-based assignment, as on a circuit-switched telephone system, is not provided in VoIP.

Similar to an e-mail, the recipient of a VoIP call is sent the caller ID of the sender via the signaling information, regardless of the sender IP address. The caller ID can be similar to the sender address of an e-mail. Such a falsification may in turn cause the recipient to draw false conclusions about the identity of the sender. An attacker could thus spend himself for another user and set up a conversation with another user.

The receiver could pull false conclusions about the identity of the transmitter based on the fake IP address.



## Examples 
* By manipulating the telephone system, the phone number of the managing director of a larger company is signaled by the telephone of an attacker. The attacker uses this manipulation to ask an employee who does not personally know the manager personally for specific internal information. Since he keeps the caller for the manager because of the transferred phone number, he gives out all the information.




