#G 5.165 Unauthorized access to or manipulation of data in web applications and web services
When a user operates a web application or when a program accesses a web service, data is transferred and typically stored both on the client and the server side (for example, in log files, browser and proxy cache). If these data are not adequately protected during transmission and storage, they can be viewed or manipulated by third parties unauthorized.

Due to the different transmission paths and storage locations of the data, special dangers arise, which are explained by the following examples:

* Access and form data entered by a user in the web browser are cached in the browser cache. If an attacker can access the computer, then he or she can read the browser cache and thus the valuable data, since the browser cache is usually not protected separately (for example, by encryption).


* When GET parameters are transmitted in the URL, they may be stored in their log files on the way from the Web application to the client by the intermediate IT systems (for example, proxy servers). Proxy servers typically log the calling URL-transmitted GET parameters. People with access to the logs can therefore read the data in the GET parameters. Consequently, if the web application transmits valuable data in GET parameters, the protection of the data can not be guaranteed. In addition, confidential data in GET parameters can be disclosed when sending a link or by viewing the browser history.


* If session data of a web application have to be stored on the client, this is often done via a storage in cookies. This can be valuable data, such as the session ID. If an attacker gains access to the client (for example, through the client-side execution of malicious code), it is possible to illegally read out or use the contents of cookies and send them unnoticed to the attacker (see also G 5.170 Cross -Site Scripting (XSS)).


* If the connection between the web service client and the web service is not adequately secured by encryption or electronic signatures, attackers may be able to see or manipulate confidential data during the transmission.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



