#G 5.110 Web bugs
Web bugs are images embedded in e-mail or web pages that are reloaded when opened from a foreign server. These images can be very small, such as one minute pixel graphics. The images are embedded in such a way that they are generally invisible, but cause the execution of a script or program when loading from the source server.

If web bugs are embedded in HTML-formatted emails, the sender can eg. recognize which email was read when. For example, in connection with unsolicited bulk emails, this may be undesirable.

When using the World Wide Web, users must generally expect connections to other servers apart from the server whose WWW offer they are currently using. This is the case, for example, when referencing images from a WWW page that are on a different server. Although this is a normal process in principle, this mechanism may inadvertently transmit information to third parties, as shown in the example below. In particular, this may compromise confidential data of the user or the server operator.



## Examples 
* A university uses a freely available on the Internet software package to provide dynamic content on the WWW server (CGI scripts). Depending on the input of the user, the software generates suitable response pages on the WWW server and sends them to the user. In addition to the actual contents of the generated HTML pages but also contain references to images that are not on the server of the University, but the programmer of the CGI scripts. As a result, these images are retrieved from the programmer's server each time a user accesses the university's Internet site. In this way, the programmer receives detailed information about the use of the software package developed by him, but unfortunately also about the use of the internet offer of the university.




