#G 5.202 Side channel attacks on embedded systems
An attacker could gain knowledge of cryptovariables by means of a side-channel attack and thus break encodings or signatures. He uses observable properties of the physical implementation of a cryptosystem. Typical attacks are:

* Simple Power Analysis and Differential Power Analysis (DPA): The power consumption of a microprocessor during cryptological calculations is used to draw conclusions about completed operations and keys.
* Computational Time Attacks: The key is derived successively by analyzing runtime differences in various inputs to cryptographic techniques.
* Microarchitectural attacks: The fact is exploited that data and routines are loaded depending on the key in the cache cache when executing cryptographic software.
* (Semi-) Invasive Attacks: Short-term malfunctions are generated when executing cryptographic algorithms. The behavior of the system in case of different disturbances is compared and deduced to the used key.




## Examples 
* In 2012, a research paper was published describing how DPA and the Pipeline Emission Analysis (PEA) detect a backdoor and extract a secret key in a field-programmable gate array (FPGA) chip could. PEA is a further development of conventional side channel attacks with improved waveform analysis, with the aim of obtaining usable results in less time and with noisy signals.
* In 2011, scientists were able to discover the secret key of a TLS / SSL server using Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) with Elliptic Curve Cryptography. The attack was based on the fact that the time required for a multiplication allows conclusions on their operands.
* In 2008, researchers were able to reconstruct the secret key of an electronic immobilizer and door opening used in many motor vehicles. For this purpose, they carried out a DPA and a differential electromagnetic analysis (DEMA) during the transmission both at the transmitter and at the receiver.




