#G 5.203 Physical intervention in an embedded system
When attackers gain possession of an embedded system, they can use physical methods to read and manipulate data. This attack requires opening the die to access the substrate. It can only be performed by experts with appropriate laboratory equipment. A typical procedure, by which various security chips have already been cracked in the past, starts at the chip front. The contacts and circuits are exposed layer by layer. Thereafter, the circuit is analyzed and manipulated with laser beams or fine wires. This procedure is no longer possible with security chips, since manufacturers are now inserting metallization levels, so-called meshes or shields, to ensure that no one accesses the circuit from the front.

For chips that are still insufficiently protected, reverse engineering can begin with physical access. In the first step, the semiconductor is exposed from the housing, for example chemically using nitric or sulfuric acid (HNO3 or H2SO4). Subsequent cleaning can be carried out by means of acetone and ultrasound. Professional attackers could also have a machine that releases the semiconductor by means of an HNO3 vapor jet. As a result, the cover layers and at the same time the solution residues would be better removed. Next, the different levels of the chip are exposed. This can be combined with mechanical processes such as grinding and polishing and chemical processes such as hydrogen fluoride gas or hydrofluoric acid. The chip layers can then be recorded and examined layer by layer with a microscope. There are many other entry points to reverse engineering and many research is still in progress. An example of this is the use of an infrared laser, in which the wavelength is chosen so that the silicon becomes translucent. This makes it possible to determine the individual state of a transistor. Another method applies a thin film of palladium or gold. This film forms a diode with the silicon material due to the Schottky effect, depending on the doping of the substrate. These diodes can be detected with an advanced electron microscope and evaluated with special software.

To penetrate from the back was for a long time not practicable. In 2013, however, researchers showed that this is possible, too, by removing the relatively thick layer of silicon in a controlled manner across the transistors. An ion fine-beam system expands further so that the individual transistors can be recognized on the structures. It can also create new connections or existing ones are separated. For example, an intruder sensor present in the chip could be disconnected. With other measuring devices, it is possible to read information transmitted on the circuit, ie in principle also a secret key. In principle, it is also possible to inject signals and to access data that has not been securely erased.

Another example of an attack that overrides a security mechanism is against the security bit used in some microcontrollers. If this is set, it prevents the external electrical access to the program memory and can only be reset by the complete erasure of the program memory. However, with microcontrollers withEPROM and a sufficient margin of safety bit cell from the rest of the memory, it can be reset by means of UV light directed at the safety bit cell.

Attackers may try to use extreme values ??in input data to produce abnormal effects. Extreme values ??at the upper and lower limits of the value range of variables can cause a non-carefully programmed embedded system to crash or malfunction. Values ??close to zero can lead to a division by zero and thus to a misconduct or even crash of the system. The causes can be. B. in rounding errors, special processor properties or the arithmetic used.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



