#G 5.144 Compromise of directory services through unauthorized access
If an attacker has succeeded in successfully bypassing a necessary authentication against the directory service, then he can generally access a large amount of data for which he has no authorization. Thus, the entire directory service can be compromised by bypassing the authentication methods.

Another danger is that by extending privileges, unauthorized access to network resources or services is possible. This can lead to a full penetration of all directory defense efforts by an attacker. As a result, the affected system could be impaired or even destroyed. Example scenarios for this would be the abusive acquisition of unrestricted rights or spoofing of an identity with more rights than its own in order to obtain higher privileges.

In the event that a third party succeeds in using a directory service unauthorized, the result can be various kinds of damage. Examples of such damage are:

* In the case of unauthorized use of a directory service, the attacker could extract secret keys, change the keys, use the keys of a certification authority in the directory service or even manipulate critical security parameters. The consequence would be that the cryptographic methods no longer offer the expected security, ie the confidentiality or integrity of the data protected thereby is no longer guaranteed.
* If the directory service is intended for login procedures and authorization based on a detected identity is generally valid on the network, unauthorized authentication may endanger further resources, in particular other systems in the network. Thus, other systems can be compromised even if the directory service has been compromised. A directory service can be used so that a one-time authentication leads to obtaining rights on other systems, which would only be achieved without a directory service after further authentication on these systems. This could also compromise these systems if the directory service is compromised.


The security of a directory service can also be compromised if anonymous users are allowed. Because their identity is not checked, anonymous users can first of all direct queries to the directory service, by means of which they obtain at least partial information about its structure and content. If so-called anonymous binding (with LDAP) to the directory service (except for the authentication itself) is not possible, inquiries are generally answered with an error message, otherwise at least partial information about the directory service is obtained by the attacker. This information can serve as preparation for further attacks.

This is especially the case when information about resources in the network and over the network itself are revealed.

In addition, when anonymous access is allowed, DoS attacks on the directory service are easier to perform because attackers have more poorly controlled accessibility.

Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



