#G 5.200 Manipulating policies in an SOA
WS-Policy allows a service provider to provide policies on the security, quality, and version of its service in the form of machine-readable XML data for the service consumer. A service consumer also specifies its requirements in the form of XML data. If the two requirements meet, an effective policy can only be negotiated between the parties at runtime. This is done using so-called WS-Policy assertions, which are a set of standard policies that apply within a policy.

If the element of an WS policy is used in an information domain, this must be done by all instances, eg. B.Provider, Broker and Consumer are taken into account.

There is a danger that an attacker manipulates the guidelines and sends them in the form of a link, an attached content or an ID. This can lead to unwanted access to information or services. These cases occur:

* when information is forwarded to unauthorized recipients, even in foreign information domains, and
* when information is not forwarded to authorized recipients.


Furthermore, dangers can arise because guidelines are not or only insufficiently harmonized. If access to information takes place via subscription via a Notification Broker, then if necessary, three policies (policies) meet:

* Provider Policy,
* Consumer Policy,
* separate broker policy.


In this case, the broker must harmonize all three policies. However, brokers may be located in different information domains, each using their own policies. If these are not harmonized with each other, there is a risk of unauthorized access to information beyond the domain boundaries.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



