#G 5.77 Reading e-mails
E-mail is usually transmitted in plain text. On all IT systems through which the data is transmitted, these can be read or even changed unnoticed, if they are not cryptographically secured. When transmitting e-mails via the Internet, a large number of IT systems can be involved without the exact transmission path being known beforehand. The transmission path depends on the utilization and availability of the gateways and parts of the network. An e-mail from one district to the other can even be forwarded via abroad.

Incoming e-mails can also be accessed via the mailbox of the receiver's mail server. It contains all e-mails received, depending on the configuration, not just the unread, but an archive of all messages received in recent months. At least the system administrator of the mail server has access to this. In some cases, copies of outgoing emails are also stored on the mail server. Frequently, however, the user mail program stores these on the sender's computer.



## Examples 
* Several internal Microsoft e-mails were used in antitrust by the other side to substantiate their position. These emails contained partly defamatory statements about Microsoft's competitors.
* A provider provides services over the Internet. For the use a registration on the server of the service provider is required. The necessary authentication information is sent to the customer by e-mail. By reading these e-mails, an attacker is able to log on to the server of the service provider without authorization and to use services at the expense of the registered customers.




