#G 5.154 DNS Information Leakage
The main functionality of DNS is to resolve names and IP addresses. In order to be able to fulfill these requirements, among other things, the assignment of names and IP addresses of all computers and network components of DNS servers is stored. Part of this information needs to be published:

* DNS server
* Web Server
* mail server
* File server
* VPN connection points


If this domain information was not publicly available, it would not be possible to establish a connection using domain names over the Internet to those servers. Domain information On the other hand, internal computers and network components are generally not intended for the public and should therefore remain internal to the institution. Since domain information usually tells something about the function or location of the IT component in question, it is called DNS Information Leakage when this information is published.

The publication itself does not represent any direct damage to the information network. However, the domain information obtained can be used to prepare an attack on the information network. An attacker can gain an overview of the network, the security-related components, and the worthwhile goals. The more information an attacker can collect about the attack target, the higher the likelihood that he will find a vulnerability.

There are several approaches to information leakage:

* If the visibility of the domain information is not restricted, all domain information can be queried legitimately.
* If zone transfers (G 3.104 DNS server configuration failure) are allowed without restriction, all domain information can be queried using a single query.


Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



