#G 5.124 Abuse of information from mobile devices
Mobile terminals are easily lost and are easy to steal (see G 5.22 Theft in mobile use of the IT system). The smaller and more popular such devices are, the higher is this risk. In addition to the immediate loss further damage may result from the loss or disclosure of important data. This indirect damage in many cases weighs much heavier than the purely material loss of the device.

Examples:

* Data such as e-mail, meeting notes, addresses, or other documents stored in your smartphone, tablet, or PDA can be very confidential. A loss of the device may mean the disclosure of this information stored.
* Many mobile devices have security mechanisms designed to protect them from unauthorized access. However, these security mechanisms are usually designed too weakly so that attackers can overcome them. Even where effective backups are available, they are often not used for convenience, so the confidential information is not protected in the event of loss.
* Access credentials are often stored on mobile devices for other IT systems or for the EU government or company. If an unauthorized person gains possession of a laptop or PDA with (static) access codes, this can result in abusive access to internal data.
* With smartphones and cell phones, a thief can make calls at the expense of the rightful owner, if the PIN is known to him or if he can easily guess it, or if the security mechanisms of the device can easily be overcome.
* With smartphones, tablets or PDAs with a SIM card for access to the Internet via the mobile network, a thief can obtain data from the Internet to the detriment of the rightful owner. Since flat rates are generally offered within Germany, the damage only pertains to the fee to block the card and to put a new card into operation. However, if the thief sends spam over the data connection or downloads copyrighted material, the owner of the device may be faced with high claims for damages. He then threatens at least a lot of effort for legal disputes.
* Many smartphones, tablets, PDAs and laptops have interfaces for the use of removable data storage such. B. memory cards or USB sticks. With such an unattended mobile terminal with the corresponding hardware and software, there is the possibility that large amounts of data can be quickly copied down via these storage media. Not even traces are left behind.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



