#G 5.48 IP spoofing
IP spoofing is an attacking method that uses wrong IP addresses to spoof the identity of the attacked IT system.

In many protocols of the TCP / IP family, the authentication of the communicating IT systems takes place only via the IP address, which can easily be falsified. If you also make use of the fact that the sequence numbers generated by the computers when setting up a TCP / IP connection are easy to guess, it is possible to send packets with any sender address. This allows the use of appropriately configured services such as rlogin. However, an attacker must u. U. accept that he does not receive a response packet from the abused computer.

Other services threatened by IP spoofing include rsh, rexec, X-Windows, RPC-based services such as NFS, DNS, and the TCP wrapper, which is otherwise a very useful service for setting up access control for TCP / IP-connected Systems is. Unfortunately, the addresses used in Layer 2 of the OSI model, such as Ethernet or hardware addresses, are easy to falsify and therefore do not provide a reliable basis for authentication.

InLANs that use the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) allow much more effective spoofing attacks. ARP is used to find the appropriate 48-bit hardware or Ethernet address for a 32-bit IP address. If no corresponding entry is found in an internal table of the computer, an ARP broadcast packet with the unknown IP address is sent out. The computer with this IP address then sends back an ARP response packet with its hardware address. Since the ARP response packets are not tamper-proof, then it is usually enough to get control over one of the computers in the LAN to compromise the entire network.

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



