#G 5.98 Listening to mobile phones
The easiest way to listen to a conversation on a mobile phone is in the immediate vicinity. Very often one can experience how the public telephones loudly and thereby many internals are disclosed (see also G 3.45 insufficient identification of communication partners).

In general, with different levels of effort but also different technical Abh rmethoden conceivable.

If z. For example, if an attacker is able to gain access to the network operator's technical facilities (lines, switches, base stations), he will be able to handle all telephone calls made through those facilities. This applies both to connections in the mobile network and in the fixed network. Targeted listening to calls that are assigned to a particular telephone number, however, is extremely complicated in view of the huge flood of data.

If the connections are routed via cable-bounded routes from the base station to the mobile switching center, a physical attack on the cable routes is required. If a base station is connected to the mobile services switching service via an unscrambled radio link, which may be the case with some network operators, it is possible to intercept and listen to these radio signals unnoticed by antennas and special receivers. If necessary, the risk can increase as a result of all telephone calls of the connected base station being transmitted on these radio links.

Even in the fixed network telephone calls are bundled over radio links. Since this transfer is usually carried out unscrambled, the transferred calls with some technical effort are also available there.

The radio transmission between the mobile phone and the base station is encrypted in Germany in all GSM mobile networks. However, this encryption is considered as broken: With instructions available on the Internet and with devices from the electronics market, the connection between the mobile phone and the base station can be easily intercepted. There are special attack devices (IMSI catchers) that exploit the weakness of one-way authentication in the GSM network (only mobile phone versus base station) by pretending to give mobile phones a base station, turning off encryption, and clear operation pretend. Depending on legal regulations, in some countries the transmission encryption may also be completely switched off. Other security parameters, such as the frequency of key changes, may also be weaker.

Other conceivable ways to disable this encryption are technical manipulations on the mobile phone or technical equipment of the network operator.

Encryption in the UMTS network is much more secure compared to the GSM network. If encryption is well implemented, no successful attacks on the mobile-to-base connection are known. In addition, the authentication in the UMTS network between the mobile phone and the base station is certificate-based. Without ownership of these certificates, IMSI catchers in UMTS networks can not be used. However, with some effort, mobile phones can be manipulated to switch from the UMTS network to the GSM network, thus re-enabling all known attacks on the GSM network.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



