#G 5.167 Errors in the logic of web applications and web services
So that business processes can be mapped by a web application, individual functions are usually combined into a complex application logic. It is crucial for a process in which order the individual functions or process steps are called. In a service-oriented architecture, the term orchestration describes the composition of individual web services. Orchestration defines the logical order of the web services and the conditions for calling and all dependencies of the individual services.

If such logical processes are used in safety-relevant functions, such as, for example, for the authentication of users, this process can be manipulated unpredictably (for example, by skipping individual steps) and thus controlled. An attacker may be able to circumvent the security mechanism.

In addition, faulty actions can also be triggered if functions of the web application or the web service can be used for unintended purposes. For example, a contact form of a web application may be misused to send SPAM if the default contact address of the form can be changed.

Further examples:

* A web application has an input field that should be limited to a length of 20 characters. The input data of this field are additionally filtered by the web application. The filtering of the input data is more computationally intensive than the checking of the length of the character string. If the more complex filtering takes place before the length of the test, an attacker can fill the field with a very long string, which is processed by the resource-intensive filter component. This can provoke a high resource consumption due to the order, which can be exploited for denial-of-service attacks.


* In an online store, a discount is given when a particular product (product X) is ordered. A buyer, however, does not want to buy product X, but product Y. By adding both product X and product Y to the cart, the buyer will be granted a discount. However, the payment process is aborted by the user and product X is removed from the shopping cart. Thus, there is no longer a claim for a discount. Nevertheless, this is granted to the product Y after another change in the payment process. Consequently, due to a lack of a final examination of the criteria for the discount, a fraudster can change the purchase price for product Y without authorization.


* An attacker alters routing rules and information exchange functions in a web service so that the business processes depicted are prevented or confidential messages are routed to untrusted systems. The logic in the business processes represented by the orchestration can no longer be ensured and proves to be faulty. Information may arrive incorrectly or incompletely at the web service client.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



