#G 5.7 Listening to wires
Disclaimer on lines is a danger to information security that should not be neglected. Basically, there are no secure cables. Only in terms of the effort required to listen the cables differ. Whether a line is actually peeled off can only be determined with high metrological effort.

The decision to end a line is essentially determined on the part of the attacker by the question whether the information is worth the technical or financial cost and the risk of discovery. The answer to this question depends very much on the individual possibilities and interests of the attacker. Thus, it is not possible to determine with certainty which information and thus lines may be intercepted.

The effort to listen for lines can be very low. For some types of LAN cabling, access to a LAN socket may be sufficient to handle all network traffic on the local network. The risk is greater if an attacker has access to passive or even active coupling elements of the IT network. It is even easier to listen to wireless networks (Wireless LAN / wireless LAN, IEEE802.11). In addition, the risk of discovery is virtually zero.

The unprotected transmission of authentication data with plaintext protocols such as HTTP, ftp or telnet is particularly critical, since the position of the data entered by the user in the transmitted packets can be easily determined here by the simple structure of the protocols (see G2.87 Use unsafe protocols in public networks). An automatic analysis of such compounds can thus be realized with little effort.

By means of password sniffing, for example, in a first step, passwords can be intercepted during the transmission to a system. This allows the attacker to access the IT system and then make further attacks locally on the machine.

Using fingerprint techniques, the framework or operating system used can also be found out. This information can then be used to exploit known vulnerabilities in the system. It is also conceivable that information about directory services may be obtained that could be used by attackers to bypass authentication mechanisms.



## Examples 
* It is wrong to assume that e-mailed messages are like classic letters. Since e-mails can be read throughout their journey through the web, comparing them with postcards is much more realistic.
* Some manufacturers already supply programs (sniffer) together with the operating systems, which are used for debugging the networks, but can also be used for listening, already together with the operating systems.




