#G 5.187 Overcoming the logical network separation
If the separation of network structures of different clients is not achieved by the establishment of physically separate networks, but rather by virtual storage area networks (VSANs) or local area networks (VLANs), this can potentially lead to a risk r lead the information security of the institution.

If an attacker succeeds in penetrating the network of another client, for example by exploiting weaknesses, he can gain both administrative access to the client's or user's LAN and to the transmitted user data in this way. Missing or inadequate rights, role and zone concepts increase the damage potential of such attacks.

In principle, it is possible to overcome the separation over several paths (see also G 5.115 Overcoming the boundaries between VLANs):

* The attacker gains physical access to a switch and can manipulate it.
* The attacker exploits an existing misconfiguration. On the one hand, the client capability can be configured incorrectly so that the attacker gains access to other clients. On the other hand, the actual assignment of a user to a virtual SAN or SIM can be made. The attacker then gains access to data within a virtual network for which he initially has no authorization.
* The attacker exploits an unpatched software vulnerability.


N-Port ID Virtualization (NPIV) is used in virtual storage area networks (VSANs) where the physical SAN server has an insufficient number of Fiber Channel ports. NPIV allows a physical host bus adapter port, with several World Wide Port Name (WWPN). The use of NPV in Fiber Channel networks may result in one server gaining unauthorized access to another server's data by using the same WWPN.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



