#G 5.16 Danger during maintenance / administration work
An IT system can be manipulated in any way during maintenance. The danger consists primarily in the fact that the owner is often unable to immediately recognize and understand the modifications made. In addition, both external and internal service technicians usually have full access to all data stored on the managed IT systems.

External service technicians may try to gain unauthorized internal information or install backdoors to gain access to IT systems at all times.

For your own benefit or for the convenience of colleagues, maintenance or administration work by internal personnel may attempt to change permissions (eg, remote access to telephone calls or access to Internet services) or other features to activate. Ignorance can cause system crashes or further security gaps can be opened by configuration errors.

Maintenance personnel also have frequent full access to the stored data on the managed IT systems (read and write). Even if access to certain storage areas or specific times is limited, this leaves room for accessing the stored data and possibly passing on or manipulating it without authorization.

The self-contained control or temporary deactivation of control or alarm technology during maintenance also has a high risk potential. This also applies to alarm systems and control systems.



## Examples 
* A short-term temp who had the task of blocking unused accounts uses their full authority to download copyrighted software from the central application server for personal use. To be able to distribute the program immediately to friends, he uses official CD-ROM / DVD burners and data carriers.
* In order for a colleague to be able to carry out her private home banking transactions during the service period, she will, as a matter of convenience, be granted exclusive access to her Internet provider via ISDN. When she downloads a screensaver from the Internet at Easter, she infects her PC with a virus. Since the computer is connected to the home network, the virus spreads very quickly. The corporate network can not be used for several hours until the problem is resolved.
* Intruder alarm systems in many cases have an integrated logging printer. It happens again and again that the burglar alarm system to replace the required printing paper for this purpose is switched off as a precaution. When the device is switched on again, there is a risk that the system will be started improperly, resulting in malfunctions.




