#G 5.158 Abuse of social networks
Social networks are very successful platforms and are gaining more and more members. However, in addition to various advantages, there are also security risks that users should not lose sight of:

* The identity (eg, user description or avatar) used by a user in social networks or virtual worlds is usually closely related to their real identity. A virtual identity may possibly be abused by others, for example by performing actions in this role under the wrong flag, so to speak, without the owner knowing this.
* Users of social networks announce a variety of information about themselves in order to be perceived in these networks and to be able to participate. Depending on the intention of the social network, this may include the name and photo of the user, one or more e-mail addresses, place of residence, employer, personal and professional background. This information is accessible to large groups of users and the user has no control over their distribution.
* Information about users can be used as a basis for social engineering attacks. The goal of such attackers is to obtain as much background information as possible in order to gain the trust of the victim and persuade him to take further action, for example to open certain files.
* Confidential information could be disclosed, for example, because the basic idea of ??a social network reflects close relationships and trust between participants, which is not always the case.
* The data accessible via social networks can be used for the skillful password rate. Typically, when registering for such services, dates such as birthday, place of birth, former schools, universities, and other places of activity are given in order to establish interesting contacts. With many Internet offerers and applications it is meanwhile usual, with the allocation of passwords also directly personal information to seize, which are inquired, if someone forgot their password. For example, in the case of telephone banking for authentication, it is often sufficient to know the correct date of birth, which can easily be learned via social networks.




