#G 5.95 Listening to room calls via mobile phones
Mobile phones can be used to record or listen unnoticed. In the simplest case z. For example, at a meeting, a mobile phone that has been connected to an interested listener is placed inconspicuously in a room. Most mobile phones are equipped with a hands-free function and can easily record calls throughout the room. Furthermore, the mobile phones can be set to automatically accept calls without user interaction, and thus be able to listen to nearby conversations. Even if the battery capacity is limited, the multi-hour standby time and the multi-hour call time are sufficient for an effective pick-up.

Mobile phones can be used to record or listen unnoticed. In the simplest case z. For example, at a meeting, a mobile phone that has been connected to an interested listener is placed inconspicuously in a room. Most mobile phones are equipped with a hands-free function and can easily record calls throughout the room. Furthermore, the mobile phones can be set to automatically accept calls without user interaction, and thus be able to listen to nearby conversations. Even if the battery capacity is limited, the multi-hour standby time and the multi-hour call time are sufficient for an effective pick-up.

Room calls can often be simply intercepted by cleverly placing a mobile phone with the dictation device activated.

For this purpose, however, it is also possible to use mobile telephones which are not to be considered to be switched on. The mobile phone serves as a tap-off system that can be activated via the telephone network from anywhere in the world without this being recognizable on the mobile phone. There were also known devices in which this function is realized by means of additional circuit installations. This manipulation was relatively easily demonstrated by a visual inspection after disassembly of the device or by special investigation methods. The operation of such devices is illegal in Germany. In addition to these technical measures for listening to space calls via mobile phones, the same effect can be achieved by suitable applications (apps) of smartphones (see G 5.96 Manipulation of mobile phones).

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



