#G 5.168 Bypass client-side implemented security features of Web applications and Web services
Web applications are typically accessed with generic clients (for example, web browsers). These can usually be configured and customized by the user. They are therefore not subject to the control of the web application, but are arbitrarily manipulated by an attacker who has gained access. This allows client-side security features to be disabled. If no additional, server-side protection measures are provided, an attacker can thus access the resources of the web application without authorization.

Web services are also used in part by applications that are not in an operator-controlled security context, such as applications on mobile devices (apps). If web services are realized for such usage scenarios, the implementation of security functions by the calling client must not be assumed here since it is not recognizable to the web service whether the calling client is being manipulated or is being used against another client without corresponding safety functions were exchanged.

In practice, this vulnerability is most often associated with authorization checks that are performed on the client side but are not verified by the server after the web service has been invoked. For example, hiding a button in the client does not protect against invoking the server-side feature of this button, such as manipulating the client, calling URLs directly, or replay or man-in. The middle attacks are carried out during the communication.

Examples:

* The input validation is implemented exclusively on the client side in the JavaScript programming language. If JavaScript support is disabled on the client, the validation function will not be executed and thus bypassed. Thus, any input (such as malicious code) can be sent to the web application and processed unprocessed. An attacker could exploit this, for example, to transmit commands to background systems of the web application without authorization (for example, in the form of database queries to execute a SQL injection).


* The web application only tests a client-side authentication parameter (for example, admin = true). If an attacker knows this parameter, he can manually set and use the parameter to log in to the web application without knowing the access data.


* An application only displays the menu item User administration if the logged in user has administration rights. However, a direct call of the corresponding Web service also makes it possible to edit the user administration without administration rights, because the programmer of the Web service has relied on the fact that an authorization check has already been carried out in the client.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



