#G 5.184 Information gathering via web services
In order to be able to dynamically combine web services (orchestration) in a service-oriented architecture (SOA) to perform cross-border tasks, the individual web services provide information about themselves and their interfaces in standardized form as WSDL documents (Web Service Description Language). As a result, consumers can call up all the necessary information for calling the service in a standardized, machine-readable form. The WSDL documents are provided in a SOA via a central repository.

However, the information shown in these interface descriptions may also contain valuable hints for attackers, thus preparing for or facilitating attacks on the services. Often, AutomatedSDL files are generated from the used developer frameworks, they often contain more information than is actually needed for the application.

Attackers targeting web services often start with an exploratory phase in which the attacker attempts to retrieve and evaluate WSDL files about the services offered, for example, using a search engine (WSDLGoogle Hacking).

Information that may be of interest to an attacker is:

* Names of callable methods and related parameters. Especially with automatically generated WSDL documents, methods are often included here that are not intended for a call from outside. Attackers can attempt to circumvent security functions such as authorization checks by directly invoking such methods.


* Information about used naming schemes. For example, attackers can use the names of published methods to try to guess the names of other unspoken methods and call them directly. Trying out unreleased but published name-derived methods is also called WSDLScanning or WSDLEnumeration.


With the information about the achievable (published or derived) methods and invocation parameters, the attacker can try to directly call functions not intended for him. Furthermore, it can also provoke error states by changing call parameters, for example, to draw further conclusions from the error messages to the technical implementation (for example, to database tables and field names, libraries used and frameworks). , From the error messages, it may also be possible to conclude how the service checks the transmitted parameters. Based on the findings, further attacks (for example, injection attacks) can then be started.

Another variant of attack is to manipulate the URL to call a web service, thereby finding and exploiting other non-invoked services (for example, by changing the server directory to Directory Traversal). Such attacks are particularly threatening at REST interfaces due to the semantic meaning of the URL for the service call.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



