#G 5.193 Inadequate protection against malicious programs on smartphones, tablets and PDAs
Smartphones, tablets and PDAs usually have only one active user account with restricted rights. The administrator account is usually turned off. That is, while users can install or uninstall new applications, they can not make deep changes to the operating system itself. Such administrative rights are only accessible through manipulation of the operating system (rooten or jailbreaking).

Unlike PCs, it is therefore not possible to equip anti-malware programs with such high rights that they can not be manipulated by them. So there is malware that exploits vulnerabilities in the operating system to gain administrative rights on the terminal. This gives it higher rights than any protection program. Such malicious programs are very difficult to detect and can no longer be removed from the terminal by normal means.

Another guardian of protection programs is that access from one application to another is usually limited and even completely excluded on some platforms. This makes the work of protection programs difficult or even impossible.

In addition, protection programs usually work only with virus signatures to detect malicious software. Other methods, such as heuristic analysis of the data or a behavior analysis, are usually not available due to the limited battery capacity. However, methods that attempt to solve this problem through external traffic analysis raise privacy issues and additional security risks by analyzing the entire data stream on the heuristic search device. However, encrypted connections either have to be broken or can not be analyzed.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



