#G 5.42 Social engineering
Social engineering is a method to gain unauthorized access to information or IT systems by listening to it. In social engineering, human characteristics such as. Helpfulness, trust, fear or respect for authority exploited. As a result, employees can be manipulated to act improperly. A typical case of attacks using social engineering is the manipulation of employees by phone call, in which the attacker z. B. outputs as:

* Vorzimmerkraft, whose supervisor wants to do something quickly, but has forgotten his password and urgently needs it now,
* Administrator calling for a system error, as he still needs the user's password to troubleshoot,
* Telephone-breaker, who wants to know some technical details, eg. under which phone number a modem is connected and which settings it has
* External, who would like to speak to Mr. X, but who is not available. The information that Mr. X is absent for three days also tells him at the same time that Mr. X's account is not being used during this time, so it is unobserved.


When critical questions come up, the curious is supposed to be just a help or an important person.

Another strategy in systematic social engineering is building a longer relationship with the victim. Through many unimportant phone calls in advance, the attacker can gather knowledge and build trust, which he can later exploit.

Such attacks can also be multileveled by building on the knowledge and techniques acquired in previous stages.



## Examples 
* An attacker has an easier time making the victim contact him on his own initiative. For example, the attacker could manipulate the PBX of the target organization to forward all calls to the administrator. This can happen, for example, after a successful social engineering attack on the telephone engineer or a successful compromise of an insecure configured telephone system from the outside. If, for example, the attacker succeeds in carrying out a denial-of-service attack, the victim of the attack will contact the administrator. By manipulating the telephone system, the victim reaches only the attacker. Normally no one will question this in normal day-to-day business.




