#G 5.52 Abuse of administrator rights on Windows operating systems
An abusive administration exists when beneficial or unlawfully acquired administrator privileges are used to harm the system or its users.



## Examples 
* By improper use of the right to take possession of any files, an administrator can gain access to any files on a Windows NT-based system, even though their owners have explicitly denied him access through appropriate access controls. However, access can be detected by the original owner of the files because the administrator must own the files. On Windows NT-based systems, there is no feature available to reverse this change. However, starting with Windows Server 2003 or Windows Vista, Windows provides the option to disguise ownership and return ownership to any user. An administrator can also access user files unnoticed without taking possession, for example by logging in. enters the Backup Operators group and backs up the files he wants to read.
* There are several ways to exploit administrator privileges abusively. This includes inadmissible access to files as well as changes to the logging settings and the user account defaults. Other means of abuse include deleting log information by adjusting the system time or detailing the activities of individual users.
* Depending on the underlying hardware, the system can be booted if the console or system enclosure is accessible. If necessary, this allows manipulation of the configuration if it is possible to boot from a foreign medium or to select another operating system.




