#M 1.23 Completed doors
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: building services, employees

The doors of unoccupied rooms should be closed. This prevents unauthorized access to documents and IT equipment located therein. The conclusion of individual offices is particularly important if they are located in areas with public access or if access is not controlled by other measures.

Closing the doors can be dispensed with if they have a blind knob on the side of the floor. The prerequisite for this, however, is that the authorized employees always carry their keys with them.

In some cases, z. For example, in large rooms, offices can not be completed. Then, as an alternative, each employee should lock his documents (clear desk policy) and personal workspace before leaving: desk, cabinet and PC (lock for floppy disk drive, keyboard lock), telephone.

Locking the doors can be dispensed with if there are no vulnerable objects such as documents or data carriers exposed and no unauthorized access to the IT systems in the room (and the IT systems linked to them) are the same.

When the computer is running, the doors can not be locked if access is only possible after successful authentication, ie. For example, a password-based screen saver is enabled. When the computer is switched off, it is possible to dispense with locking the office if booting the computer requires the entry of a password. The same function is fulfilled by access mechanisms based on tokens or smart cards.

It makes sense if porters or building services employees sporadically check whether the doors were locked after leaving the rooms.



