#M 1.32 Suitable installation of printers and copiers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

To prevent printers from being tampered with or printed or read by unauthorized persons, printers should be set up so that only authorized persons have access. At a minimum, printers should not be located in areas where there are often outside parties, especially not near meeting, event or training facilities. Excluded from this are only those printers that are specifically designed for these areas, for example, in training rooms.

Often there are copiers in printer rooms. From a security point of view, it must be questioned whether this increases the risk of making copies of the prints lying around in a hurry. On the other hand, experience shows that even if printouts are simply taken, most users are accused of using technology and not thinking that the printout may well have been removed by someone else.

To avoid such problems, it makes sense to set up printers and copiers so that they can be easily viewed by your own staff. For example, printers and copiers should not be placed in a dark corner, but be visible through a glass door from the secretariat.

It is better to set up printers and copiers in a closed room to which only authorized persons have access. This is recommended for higher protection requirements.

It is even better with large printers if the printouts are distributed by a trustworthy person in subjects that are only accessible to the respective recipient. Printer output must therefore be labeled with the name of the recipient. This can be done automatically by the print programs. If the protection requirement is very high, it should be checked whether this solution is suitable.

Users often find out first at the printer that they have printed out the wrong document or that even a trifle needs to be changed. Such prints are then often thrown directly at the printer in an open wastepaper basket. Since confidential documents can also fall into the wrong hands, it is advisable to place a shredder next to network printers. Alternatively, users should be cautioned that such documents should not be left behind and otherwise destroyed.



