#M 1.39 Prevention of equalizing currents on shieldings
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: building services

The standards for the IT infrastructure (DIN EN 50173, DIN EN 50174-2 Installation of communication cabling) describe both shielded and unshielded data cabling as well as the requirements for earthing and shielding of these systems. When using shielded data lines, the standards differentiate between technically used premises (eg server rooms and data centers) and rooms with general IT usage. For the technically used rooms, the two-sided application of the shielding and a close meshing of the systems and components is specified. For the general use of the IT infrastructure, such as the floor cabling in buildings, the standards stipulate the one-sided application of the shielding. Double-sided hanging is optional.

If mains operation is impaired by compensating currents when using shielded cables, the cause should first be analyzed. Due to the ever-increasing IT transmission methods, the systems are becoming more sensitive to high-frequency interference. In addition, they may even become high-frequency interferers for surrounding systems and systems. If operational failures are detected, the correct route must be devised, depending on local conditions. Since this requires a great deal of expertise, it is generally recommended that a specialist firm be commissioned for the assessment, analysis and development of a solution.

For example, to prevent equalizing currents on the shielding of data lines in buildings, there are several possibilities:

Equalizing currents can be avoided in the TN-C system by connecting only such IT devices via shielded data cables connected to a common electrical distribution. With every extension of the data network, this condition must be checked and ensured.

As a measure against equalizing currents in the TN-C or TN-CS system, it is often proposed to apply the shielding of data lines exclusively to one side only. With regard to equalizing currents, this procedure is indeed effective. For other reasons, however, this remedy should be used extremely strictly as an absolute exception:

* Shielded cables whose shielding is only applied on one side are considerably more affected by outside interference. At the same time, they emit more power than unshielded balanced cables. Thus, in the case of one-sided shielding, more data transmission interference (eg availability or integrity) must be expected than with all other cables.The stronger emission of evaluable radiation of such cables is considered as Risk when considering the confidentiality of information added.
* Even if all the technical disadvantages of one-sided shielding are accepted, the problem remains one of implementation. It requires consistent control in all work on the data network to ensure that unilaterally placed shields are not at some point put on both sides. Such errors are subsequently only to be found with very great effort.


The optimal option from a safety point of view is to design the power distribution network throughout the building completely as a TN-S system. The PE and N conductors are routed separately from the equipotential bonding rail (PAS). Single measures on IT equipment are then usually no longer required. Note, however, the note in M 1.28 Local uninterruptible power supply regarding the formation of a new TN-S system for the connected devices.

In order to ensure the long-term effectiveness of the TN-S system, it must be ensured that the connection between the PE conductor and the neutral conductor at the PAS (zeroing) is the only one in the entire network. However, it can not be ruled out in practice that, when connecting new devices or switching work in the network, a further connection between the PE conductor and the N conductor is inadvertently created. Therefore, changes in the data network should be coordinated with the building services. In addition, a TN-S system should be checked for correct zeroing at regular intervals. This can be done with the tests of the power supply network to be carried out anyway and with suspicions (for example, long-term non-specific disturbances in the data network). As a minimum measure, a TN-S system in the low-voltage main distribution system (NSHV) must be equipped with permanent residual current monitoring via the three phases and the neutral conductor as well as a further permanent current monitoring via the central earthing point (ZEP). All other technical measures for the quality assurance of the TN-S system are broken down into M 1.74 EMC-compliant power supply.

The following drawings explain the formation of equalizing currents on shielding and the possible countermeasures:







