#M 1.58 Technical and organizational specifications for server rooms
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Information Security Management

A server room should be designed as a closed security area. This should have access gates and windows that are as secure as possible, as all access options must be monitored (see also M 1.10 Safe doors and windows). Access should be protected by high quality access control mechanisms. When planning a server room or selecting suitable premises, potential dangers due to environmental influences should be minimized as far as possible. For example, hazard potentials such as water penetration in flat roofs or in basements are just as likely to be counteracted as EMV sources of pollution, eg. Mobile radio transmitting devices or three-phase power units.

When planning, care should also be taken to ensure that the routes of the supply lines of the building, eg. For water or gas (see M 1.24 Avoidance of water-bearing pipes), do not run in the immediate vicinity or even through sensitive areas of the server room.

For the IT components operated in server rooms, a high degree of availability is required in many cases. These requirements can be met by redundant design of the infrastructural and technical facilities (see measure M 1.52 Redundancy, Modularity and Scalability in the Technical Infrastructure).

A server room is a security-relevant area, so only the administrators should have access to the IT systems set up there. By means of a coordinated access regulation, it must be possible for own employees and, more importantly, for temporary employees, eg. to ensure that they do not have access to systems outside their field of activity.

IT systems maintained by external parties should be located in separate rooms. It is also advisable to set up IT systems with different protection requirements or from different areas in separate server rooms, in order to keep the group of authorized persons small.

In a server room, there should be no devices or equipment that require access for a large number of users, eg. Fax machines or photocopiers. Flammable materials such as printer paper should also not be stored in a server room.

It should be prohibited to bring portable IT systems, mobile phones or cameras into a server room if they are not under the control of the respective institution. In general, the operation of mobile phones in data centers should be prohibited as they can significantly disrupt the operation of IT systems. Exceptions to this must be agreed (see M 2.188 Safety guidelines and regulations for mobile phone use).



