#M 1.9 Fire partitioning of routes
Responsible for initiation: fire protection officer, head of building services

Responsible for implementation: fire protection officer, building services

Electric cables and IT cabling are typically concentrated in installation lines. It can often be stated that paths lead along escape and rescue routes, through underground car parks, warehouses, workshops or as transit routes through foreign areas of use.

In buildings with several fire compartments, the execution of electrical cables and IT cabling is subject to fire safety regulations. This applies in particular to cables that pass through fire zones, walls or ceilings or that have been laid in traffic routes. Especially if the routes are used for fire alarm, alarm, extinguishing or emergency lighting, additional requirements for the functional integrity of electric cables in case of fire must be observed. Therefore, the fire protection officer should always be consulted when planning the routes. Routes must provide both fire protection and protection against sabotage. Both can be achieved by a professional partitioning of the routes.

If electrical cables are routed in a considerable packing density in the cable duct separated by fire protection, larger temperature increases can occur. This can lead to an increase in the electrical line resistance with additional heating. Remedy can be achieved either by a reduction in the line or by a sufficient ventilation. Therefore, the specifications inDINVDE 0100-520 Installation of low-voltage systems - Part 5: Selection and erection of electrical equipment - Chapter 52: Cable and line systems as German version of the IEC 60364-5-52 depending on the type of installation must be observed. This is the responsibility of the electrician.

The standard methods of ventilation and extraction / technology. B. by Lüfungsbausteine ??have the disadvantage that they do not provide sufficient protection against sabotage actions. This means that lines with high or very high protection requirements, which lead through unshielded areas, such. B. an underground car park, are hardly protected in this version against delictional acts. Here individual planning measures are required. This can be the adequate sizing of the channel, which eliminates the need to ventilate the channel in the endangered area, or a special ventilation concept designed to meet specific fuse requirements.

Breakthroughs must be sealed after laying the cables according to the fire resistance class of the wall or ceiling. In order to facilitate subsequent installation, suitable materials such as soft-bulkheads or fire-protection cushions can be used for temporary-type measures. Corresponding standards and guidelines, such as the DIN4102 fire behavior of building materials and components, must be observed. Cable trays stretch when heated. For example, they may be burned and may damage a soft or cushion bulkhead when passed through walls.

Therefore, routes should not be passed through the bulkhead, but on both sides at least 10 cm in front of the wall. This practice also makes it easier to break the cables and wires that do not have to be routed through the bulkhead as bundles.

Frequently in a route different cables, z. B.f r telephone, LANand home technology, led. If there are any changes in the cabling, it should already be decided in the planning phase whether other cable systems should also be replaced in the foreseeable future. A corresponding pooling of projects minimizes downtime and saves additional costs for multiple firewalling.

If the planned route guidance is not possible according to the fire safety regulations, an alternative route guidance must be examined. In addition, after completion of the installation work, the fire barrier should be inspected at regular intervals, for example, annually.



