#M 1.30 Securing the data carrier with TK fee data
Responsible for initiation: Data Protection Officer, TK-Anlagenverantwortlicher

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

On the PBX systems, fees are charged during operation. These contain information about:

* Time and date of a conversation,
* Source and destination number and the
* Call duration.


Fees are personal data within the meaning of the applicable federal and state data protection laws. It follows that even after the measures of the IT-Grundschutz proposed in the following a separate consideration with regard to the requirements of the data protection laws (eg from the annex to the Bundes9 Federal Data Protection Act) must be carried out.

This data can be stored both on the hard disk of the PBX itself and on an external charge calculator. In many cases, there will be a combination of both. The computers are to be protected -if possible-so that only authorized persons can access the fee data. For this it is necessary to set up the fee calculator in a specially protected room (see module B 2.4 Server room). For facilities on which fee data are stored, measures M 1.23 Completed doors, M 2.5 Task distribution and separation of functions, M 2.6 Assignment of access authorizations, M 2.7 Assignment of access authorizations, M 2.8 Assignment of access rights, M 2.13 Proper disposal of valuable equipment and M 2.17 access control and control.

It must be documented which persons in which roles have access to the fee data.



