#M 1.10 Safe doors and windows
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: building services

If doors and windows form a transition between security zones, they must provide adequate protection. An Au ent r must z. B. Protect against burglary, as well as the accessible windows must be secured. In the interior, doors that form the boundary of a fire compartment must themselves be fire-resistant; in addition, they or other interior doors can form a second line of burglary protection.

Safety doors and windows are classified in standards. The protection objective of the area to be protected and the need for protection of the institution allow a selection to be made of the appropriate design of doors and windows:

* In the standard DIN EN 1627: 2011-09 doors, windows, curtain walls, grille elements and finishes - burglar resistance - requirements and classification, the components have been classified in resistance classes (RC, Resistance Class). Doors according to classifications RC1 to RC4 offer greater protection against burglary due to their stability (eg in server rooms, premises with technical infrastructure as well as cellar and supplier entrances). The resistance classes RC5 and RC6 are usually appropriate only for very specific requirements and therefore play no role in IT-Grundschutz considerations.


* Self-closing fire-retardant and possibly smoke-tight doors (eg fire protection doors T30bzw.T30-RS, according to DIN18082 fire protection terminations) delay the spread of a fire and in the RS version also smoke.


* They protect the spread of fire smoke in the version as self-closing smoke protection door (DIN 18095-1 doors, smoke protection doors, terms and requirements). Fire smoke is so fine that it can easily pass through pressure equalization and ventilation openings of hard drives. However, it is still too big for the low flying heights of hard drive reading heads and causes enormous damage there.


Several protection features can also be combined in one door. For example, there are smoke-tight fire doors, which also provide protection against burglary.

The safety measures of all enclosing components must be equivalent:

* When using burglary-resistant doors, the use of burglar-resistant windows or facade elements (see DIN EN1627-1630: 2011 Doors, windows, curtain walls, grille elements and shutters - burglary resistance) must be considered in the façade area.
* Furthermore, it is z. B. It is not appropriate to install a burglar-resistant door of the highest resistance class in a plasterboard wall.
* When installing a fire-retardant or smoke-tight door, it must be ensured that the surrounding wall is equally fire-retardant and smoke-tight, and that there is no bypass through open skylights or unsheathed cable ducts.


Requirements for the execution of safety gates can be found in the measures M 1.47 Own fire compartment and M 1.19 Burglary protection.

The use of safety gates makes sense in terms of fire protection beyond the area prescribed by the building inspectorate and the fire department (see M 1.6 Observance of fire protection regulations), especially in the case of rooms requiring protection such as server room, document or data archive. In the case of rooms requiring a high level of protection, a balanced protection concept must be created, which takes into account the installation of safety gates and the notification of danger and alarms for testing and intervention. If a potential attacker has time for a break-in attempt for a whole weekend, even a high-quality burglar-resistant door will not deter him from stealing or destroying data or equipment.

For the equipment of computer centers, the resistance class RC3 according to DIN EN 1627-1630: 2011 should be used as the minimum value for the doors including their installation situation. Only if there is a particularly favorable condition for safety, in particular if the intervention time of auxiliary forces is short (maximum 2 minutes), can an RC2-T r suffice in exceptional cases. On the other hand, if the intervention time of assistive forces is 5 minutes and higher, even an RC3 target is considered inadequate, and the incorporation of RC4 terminals is recommended. Naturally, the same considerations also apply to all other components forming the RC shell.

Note: The goal of a break-in could also be to manipulate data or IT systems. Therefore, central IT systems should be checked for their integrity after break-in (see also M 6.60 Definition of reporting procedures for security incidents).

It is necessary to ensure that fire and smoke protection doors are actually closed and not (inadmissibly) z. B.B. be kept open by wedges. Alternatively, doors can be used with an automatic locking mechanism that is activated in the event of an alarm.

In addition, it must be checked regularly that the security doors and windows are functional. They must be in a proper mechanical condition, safely opened and closed, and supervised installations such as closing contacts must function.



