#M 1.71 Functional tests of the technical infrastructure
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: building services

In the field of technical infrastructure, unfortunately, real functional tests are still rarely performed. So z. For example, the proper functioning of the emergency power supply or the correct interplay of air conditioning and fire protection have rarely been tested. Although in many cases a great deal of effort is made for the provision of default, nevertheless the implemented measures are often not tested, since consequential damage is fostered by the tests. However, the tests performed instead are not suitable for truly testing the entire reaction chain as it has to be done in real life. In principle, however, it is better to conduct tests and to handle (and learn) any consequential damage in test operation, as unexpectedly being hit by these consequential failures in live operation when emergency measures are activated , As a rule, an inspection of the technical infrastructure is limited to the individual technical equipment under consideration, eg. the energy supply. At most, the interfaces to functionally adjacent devices are still treated. A comprehensive consideration of entire functional chains, however, usually does not take place. A typical chain of functions is the succession of reactions Power supply fails, NEA starts automatically. This function chain can not be adequately tested by performing a hand-start of the NEA and then shutting off the power supply, as it did not control how the functional chain reacts in the event of a spontaneous failure of the primary energy.

In general, the proper functioning of complex reaction chains can not be determined with sufficient certainty by a classical inspection. So it happens again and again that despite optimal inspection and maintenance of all individual units, the entire system in the event of a failure does not work as planned.

Example: In a specific case, the NEA and the power failure detection, including the signal applied, had been inspected as functional. In the event of a power failure, then the power failure detection has reacted correctly and sent a signal to the emergency power system (NEA). However, for some unknown reason, this signal did not interpret the signal correctly and therefore did not start, even though the NEA was actuated during the inspection with the signal provided by the NEA manufacturer and reacted properly in this individual test.

It is therefore essential to subject reaction chains to a real functional test (real test). This means that the facilities to be tested as a complete system are specifically confronted with the problem that they are intended to cope with. Since the purpose of such a real test is to detect only identifiable errors in the overall system, it must be expected that just such errors occur, and the reaction does not take place in the planned manner.

Therefore, real tests should not be performed during peak hours and preparations should be made to cope with the consequences of any errors that may occur. The latter should be part of the emergency preparedness anyway.

Real-time testing of a data center's technical infrastructure should be conducted every one to two years, as well as after system rebuilds and extensive repairs.



