#M 1.2 Regulations for access to distributors
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: building services

The distribution boards (eg for energy supply, data networks, telephony) are to be accommodated as far as possible in premises for technical infrastructure (see building block  B 2.6 room for technical infrastructure). The measures required there must be taken into account.

Access to the distributors of all utilities (electricity, water, gas, telephone, hazard warning, pneumatic post etc.) in a building must be possible and orderly.

With possible is meant

* that distributors are not glued to paintwork with paint or wallpaper in such a way that they can only be opened with tools or can not be found,
* that distributors are not supplied with furniture, appliances, pallet etc.
* that for locked distributors the keys are available and the locks work.


By ordered is meant that it is defined who may open which distributor. Distributors should be closed and may only be opened by persons in charge of the respective utility. The access options can be controlled by different closings and a corresponding key management (see also M 2.14 Key Management and M 1.80 Access Control System and Authorization Management).

If fuses are installed in distributors of the power supply network, appropriate spare fuses (in the distributor) should be available. A documentation of the distributors is to be carried out according to M .2.19 Neutral documentation in the distributors.

All devices installed in the distributor must be labeled accurately and comprehensibly.



