#M 1.61 Appropriate selection and use of a mobile workstation
Initiation Initiation: User, IT Security Officer, Supervisor

Responsible for implementation: users

Thanks to ever smaller and more powerful IT systems, it is now possible to work almost anywhere. As a result, any environment can become a mobile workstation, such as a hotel room, a seat in the train or plane or a customer at home. Such mobile workstations unfortunately can only be set up very limited by the IT user and must generally be used as they were found. Therefore, it is always first of every mobile IT user to decide whether the respective environment is suitable for use as a mobile workstation. The reasons that could speak against them are, for example, the following:

* The information to be processed is too sensitive to be processed outside the protected banking environment (see also M 2.217 Careful classification and handling of information, applications and systems and M 2.218 Regulation of data carrier transport) and IT components).
* The environment does not allow to work without a third party's inspection, eg. B. in tight seats in the train or the aircraft.
* There is no power supply or no network connection.
* The use of mobile IT devices is prohibited, eg. B. on the plane or in foreign B ros.


Some aspects that are desirable for mobile work are the following:

* There should be a stable place to park the mobile IT systems. Many mobile IT systems are destroyed by disruptions.
* The environment should not be too loud.
* The environment should be sufficiently lit, monitor light alone is not enough in the long run. Avoiding glare, reflections or reflections should be avoided.
* The monitor should be able to be positioned so that the inputs can not be observed. For laptops, there are also special monitor slides that prevent viewing from the side.
* The environment should also be such that the mobile IT systems are not compromised, so not too humid, too cold or too warm. While this is of course also in the user's own interest during use, the IT devices should also be stored accordingly.
* Mobile IT devices should be protected against theft (see also M 1.46 Use of anti-theft devices). The environment should provide the necessary conditions for this. For example, to secure a laptop with a cable lock for easy removal, it must be possible to connect the cable lock to a fixed object. If possible, windows and doors of the mobile workstation should be closed when leaving. This is z. For example, in hotel rooms or meeting rooms, it may be difficult on the train.


In foreign environments such as. It is always advisable for hotels to inform themselves about the correct behavior of fires or other emergencies, eg. About warning signs and escape routes.



