#M 1.55 perimeter protection
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: planner

If the building or data center is located within a property on which additional safety equipment can be installed, measures should be taken to prevent external hazards from the building or data center.

In particular, the first stage of an access and, above all, access control can be created here.

Depending on protection requirements and topological conditions, perimeter protection can consist of the following components:

* Outer enclosure or enclosure, eg. Fencing, masonry and fence monitoring.This offers
* Protection against unintentional crossing of a property boundary,
* Protection against intentional nonviolent overcoming of the land lot border as well
* Protection against unintentional violent overcoming of the property boundary.


* Field safety measures, eg. Landscaping, access barriers, lighting of the grounds and the building, security companies, video surveillance and detection sensors (see also M 1.53 Video surveillance). On the siteThis provides protection against unnoticed intruder intrusion the area between the enclosure and the building.


* External person and vehicle identification, eg. Video intercom, passenger or vehicle lock, door or gate opening and access control units. This offers protection against recognizable (visual, audible or sensory) unauthorized access attempts as the first step of the access control concept. This task can be supported by a Pf rtnerdienst (see also M 1.17 Pf rtnerdienst).


Before any measures in the field of perimeter protection are implemented, a coherent safety concept for the building and its environment (see M 1.79 Safety Zone Formation) must be developed in each case, which covers the above-mentioned aspects and building protection includes. Otherwise, there is a risk that comparatively expensive security measures will be implemented, such as elaborate fence systems and sophisticated terrain video surveillance, which are unrelated to building security and are therefore inappropriate.

The protection concept should be designed to build the most effective security measures possible with the resources available. This applies especially to the area of ??perimeter protection. The measures taken here should increase the overall security and not only convey the image of a high-security backdrop, since qualified attackers can hardly be dissuaded from their intentions simply by the sight of high fences and video surveillance.



## Examples 
* Is there a concept that includes both perimeter protection and building protection?




