#M 1.80 Access control system and authorization management
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of Organization

Protection against unauthorized access to a building, building parts or rooms requiring protection should often support several protection goals. Not only the protection of the property, both the institution and the property of the employees, should be ensured, but also the occupational safety, the protection of know-how and possibly also the personal protection. In addition, the proof of an appropriate allocation of access authorizations and the control of the use of these authorizations is also required if the fulfillment of contractual or legal requirements must be set out (compliance). The requirements of the institution for an access control system should be documented in sufficient detail.

Mechanical closures with their keys and group keys become problematic when you need to react quickly to key loss, or when changes in use in the building require a quick turnaround. For this reason, IT-supported access control systems (ZKS) are used in many places, as defined in the NormDINEN50133-1 / VDE0830-8-1 Alarm Systems - Access Control Systems for Fuse Applications.

Such a system consists of several basic elements that interact in layers. An access control server manages the central data base, that is, data of persons to whom permissions are assigned and the rules (who, when, where) that apply to the organization of the permissions and are applied. Connected to the access control server are control units. Authorization profiles for the connected doors, gates and barriers are transmitted to these units by the IT network from the server. All decisions to control the connected doors etc. are made in this decentralized unit. Thus, the door control is able to act without connection to the central server. In the control units data storage are integrated, which record all movement data.

Sensors (readers), actuators (eg actuators, door openers, locks) and detectors are connected to the control units.

For identification (and sometimes also authentication) of the user ID cards or tokens, which are read by the reading units. These are commonly referred to as identification feature carriers. The badges should be uniform and provided with legible attribution features (eg name and department). This makes it easier to detect directly whether unauthorized persons are in protected areas.

A legitimate access takes place in that the bearer of an ID card passes the ID card to a reader. The reader forwards the ID card ID to his control unit. If it identifies the card as eligible for this card, an actor will be opened to open the card.

In areas with higher protection requirements, a two-factor authentication should be performed. The examination of the possession (eg of the authorized chip card) is then supplemented by the examination of knowledge (eg input of a PIN) or the checking of a biometric feature of the creditor.

In addition, an access control system can be used to organize the allocation of authorizations, the allocation of identification feature carriers and also the allocation of conventional keys. Special entitlements such as parking permits for employees and short-term visitor badges should also be managed on this one system. Likewise, the logging of the use of the entire access control system is concentrated on the server.

The scope of an access control system, which also manages mechanical keys, should support all processes described in M 2.14 Key Management.

An access control system makes it easy to check at any time who has access to safety-critical areas of a building and with which passes at which time doors have been used. It is also easy to remove or change the rights of persons when changing their job or leaving the institution. It is not necessary to call back an object, eg. to collect a key, it is sufficient to deprive the ID card of the associated rights.

It must always be ensured that the decision on the allocation of access authorizations lies with the responsible person for the respective building area. The administrator of the access control system is subsequently responsible for the correct implementation of the instructions, not for the assignment of access rights themselves.

Due to the extensive possibilities of logging and evaluation (for example of employee movement data), the introduction of such a system should be coordinated in good time with the data protection officer and the employee representatives.

The planning of an access control system must respond to the individual requirements of an institution. The interfaces of such a system, for example for doors and video surveillance, are to be defined and implemented specifically for the protection objective pursued, and special problems such as the control and monitoring of escape doors must be solved. There is also the risk of being subject to restrictions by a supplier on possible changes or extensions of the system. For new purchases or major changes to an access control system, a specialist planner should be consulted.



