#M 1.33 Suitable storage of portable IT systems for mobile use
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

Users of mobile IT systems, such as laptops, mobile phones, smartphones, tablets or PDAs, must make sure that they keep the devices safe outside of the company. For this purpose, only a few hints can be given, which have to be considered for mobile use:

* As far as possible, mobile devices should not be left unattended.
* If a laptop, smartphone, tablet or PDA is stored in a motor vehicle, the device should not be visible from the outside. Covering the device or trapping in the trunk can help. A mobile IT system can be of high value, attracting potential thieves, especially as portable IT systems can easily be sold.
* If the mobile IT system is used in other rooms, it must be closed or taken away when leaving the room for a short time. If the room is left for a long time, the mobileIT system should also be switched off or access protection activated in order to prevent unauthorized use.
* In hotel rooms, the mobileIT system should not be left unattended. If the device is locked in a cupboard, it stops at least occasional thieves.
* Some newer devices can also be secured by a lock. A thief then needs tools to steal it.
* A mobile IT system should never be exposed to extreme temperatures. In particular, the battery and the display may otherwise be damaged. Neither IT equipment nor batteries should be left in parked cars when the outside temperature is extremely high or low.
* Likewise, mobile devices should be protected from environmental factors that can damage them, for example from moisture caused by rain or spray.
* Mobile terminals are not indestructible, so they should be transported as well as possible on shorter transport routes. For example, on laptops, the device should be folded, as both the hinges and the screen can easily be damaged in the event of a fall. In principle, it is always advisable to use a safe container for transport. For example, many bags and backpacks for mobile devices have their own compartments with upholstery. If possible, such bags and backpacks should be provided and used.


It is recommended to create a leaflet for the users of mobilIT systems containing the most important information and precautions for the safe storage and transport of the devices.



