#M 1.67 Dimensioning and use of cabinet systems
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

To improve the reliability of servers, active and passive network components, these devices should be installed or installed in cabinet systems. Cabinet systems are often referred to as a 19-inch rack, server cabinet or power cabinet depending on the type of use.

System doors are standardized according to DIN 60297 and DIN 41494 construction methods for electronic equipment. This makes it possible to install any type of device as long as it also complies with the standards mentioned. Components that comply with the above standards are often identified by the keyword 19-inch installation.

Cabinet systems are available in various interior and exterior dimensions. The most widespread are cabinets with a net space of 42 height units (HU). Depending on whether the cabinet systems are set up in closed distribution boxes or in generally accessible areas, they must be equipped with fitted doors, side walls and closures that meet the respective protection requirements. Sockets under the cabinets facilitate the introduction of the required wiring. Another advantage of a socket is the additional distance between the room floor and the IT systems. In this case, the possible ingress of water due to the increased positioning of the devices does not automatically cause damage to the IT systems. If the distribution space is suitably secured, the doors and side walls can be dispensed with after checking the ambient conditions.

The internal structure of the cabinet should absolutely take account of maintenance aspects. For example, the fastest possible replacement of modules in a patched switching system should be possible without adversely affecting neighboring systems. This requires the predictive installation of all components and appropriate management of patch cables. It is therefore advantageous if the electrotechnical cabling and the IT cabling can be kept stable and protected. Many cabinet system manufacturers offer built-in components that allow the cabinet-internal cable routing to be tailored to the specific needs and wishes of the user. Overlapping patch cords should be avoided.

When planning the cabinet assignment, it should be noted that the capacity of the cabinet is usually limited by the heat output of the installed devices and not by the possible installation dimensions. Problems of heat dissipation can occur if the thermal load of the installed equipment is too high.

Similar problems can arise in network enclosures, which contain a large number of passive components (patch panels) and have too dense wiring.

In this case, the air flow through the cabinet can be disturbed in such a way that components or active components malfunction. This aspect must also be taken into account when planning the cabinet layout.

In the case of side-by-side cabinets, attention must also be paid to the air ducting of the active components in adjacent cabinets. It is important to avoid that the warm air exiting components will impair the cold air supply of an adjacent component. With the partitioning of the individual cabinets in the cabinet row this problem can be countered.

To ensure that the active components can be operated within the prescribed temperature ranges, the cabinets must be equipped accordingly. In the simplest case, a passive cooling of the cabinet is sufficient in the case of sufficiently cool ambient air in the room. This can be assisted with closed cabinets by fan systems in the cabinet. If the thermal loads are too high, active cooling systems of different types can be used. A distinction should be made here, on the one hand, of room cooling, on the other hand, cooling systems which can be mounted on or on the cabinets.

In order to be able to operate IT components that have a very high heat output with a small footprint, the use of special cabinet systems with autonomous air conditioning systems can be considered. Such cabinets, which usually have a liquid cooling system internally, should only be used after a careful analysis of requirements and risks.

Any type of air conditioning requires a precise planning taking into account all influencing parameters including a corresponding economic analysis. When using cabinets with their own air-conditioning, it must also be ensured that air-conditioning ducts on side walls or doors can reduce the opening angle of cabinet doors and, if necessary, protrude into escape routes. The room layout should be planned as much as possible so that air conditioning can be retrofitted to cabinets if necessary.

It is recommended that the institution set uniform guidelines for the equipment and use of cabinet systems. The cabling of the cabinets must also be planned carefully (see also M 1.69 cabling in server rooms).



