#M 1.72 Construction work during ongoing operation
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

For economic reasons, it is often advisable, instead of rebuilding a server room or a data center, to expand the existing area of ??existing IT rooms by integrating adjacent areas. Such surface extensions often result in considerable interventions in the existing building structure because walls have to be modified, removed or even rebuilt. Furthermore, the expansion areas are to be equipped with the corresponding infrastructure (raised floor, electrical supply, air conditioning, safety technology, etc.), so that work of massive proportions is also incurred here.

In order not to limit the business activity of the institution, it is often necessary to continue to operate the existing IT infrastructure during the construction work. At the same time, the construction activities should not be restricted as far as possible by the current IT operation or conditions should be imposed so that the costs do not increase beyond the required level.

First of all, planning and preparatory changes to the infrastructure must ensure that supporting technology such as power supply, air conditioning, monitoring and alarming technology is not impaired by the construction work and remains functional , Subsequently, the affected area in which the IT is operated, from contamination, but also to prevent unauthorized access. At the same time, the construction site should not be unnecessarily obstructed. Proven measures to protect against contamination are:

* Creating a foil dust protection wall
* Creating a dust protection wall made of plasterboard construction boards (GKB)
* Masking or spraying of joints and building cracks
* Use of air purifiers
* Generation of negative pressure in the construction site area
* Application of special work procedures


A foil dust protection wall is only suitable for short construction with minimal dust formation. In this case, heavy construction film is applied to a wood stanchion. The resulting joints to adjacent components as well as penetrations of the film (eg for required lines) are sealed by means of adhesive tape.

In this embodiment, however, there is the danger that the dust protection effect is removed by damaging the film. Likewise, no secure passage barrier is created, so that additional measures are necessary so that no unauthorized persons can get into the operating areas.

Simple foil dust barriers (without the erection of a fixed standpipe) are often created temporarily to create a GKB dust barrier, which is expected to produce low levels of dust due to the necessary drilling.

In most cases, the construction of a GKB dust protection wall is urgently recommended. At the same time sufficient dust protection is achieved by a one-sided double planking of the curtain wall. This double planking prevents the area to be protected from being contaminated by fine dust, which otherwise can easily pass through the board.

To the existing structure worked surfaces and unavoidable construction joints should be sealed by an elastic sealant to prevent the passage of dust here. Wall openings and cable openings must be avoided. If this is not possible, they must be closed by suitable partitioning in such a way that the greatest possible dust density is ensured here as well.

The integration of doors into dust protection walls is possible in principle, but means a considerable weak point in dust protection. The door opening should definitely be designed as a lock to prevent drafts and the associated dust transport into the IT room. The formation of such a lock with double succession hanged Baufolie is by no means sufficient as dust protection.

The most dense construction site doors are to be installed. Very large gaps in the construction site used can, for example, be provisionally sealed with rubber lips.

Another advantage of this massive dust protection wall is the physical separation of the construction site area from the data center areas, since after building the GKB wall, none of the construction workers have direct access to the data center areas.

During the execution of the construction work, it has been proven to work in the construction site area with a constant negative pressure. In this process, a fan draws in the air in the construction site area and leads it outwards via a closed system. This ensures that a large part of the resulting dust is discharged directly and the remaining dust can not reach the neighboring area. If there are any leaks, the dust-free air of the RZ area will be sucked into the construction site area if necessary. A disadvantage of this measure is that an exhaust opening is required for the removal of the exhaust air in the facade.

When working with heavy dust, it may also be advisable to use air purifier on the building side. The air purification by air filtration (so-called deduster) is to be preferred. In the case of water-based air purification, the air is humidified to the saturation point so that a higher subtropical climate makes work difficult at higher room temperatures.

Special measures may be required as further measures for dust protection:

* the use of special wet drilling or cutting techniques
* the extraction of dust directly at the place of origin by means of permanently installed or mobile extraction system (blowing out the air directly to the outside or filtering the air)
* the vacuuming of the dust of a hole by means of a vacuum cleaner
* Picking up and transporting demolition material with vacuum cleaners or corresponding sweeper machines
* Exclusion of cleaning with brooms or by means of compressed air


Compliance with applicable regulations, such as the German Occupational Health and Safety at Work BGR 217 Handling of mineral dust or the Technical Rule for Hazardous Substances TRGS 500 Protection Measures Minimum standards should be regularly provided by the client or by him Security and Health Coordinator.

At the completion of the construction work, a construction cleaning is to be carried out. If it is not carried out by its own workforce, it must be included explicitly in the invitation to tender, as it goes beyond the contract cleaning contractually defined in the VOB (Contracting and Contracting Procedure for Construction Work).



## Examples 
* After conversion of a larger server room, the contractor made a seemingly thorough final cleaning. However, inspection of the cleaned rooms showed that the raised floor panels had not been cleaned. Significant amounts of dust were still present on the entire pillar and strut construction of the raised floor substructure. This would have been whirled up without this control and subsequent cleaning during operation by the recirculation devices and would have massively contaminated already installed IT components such as patch panels, switches and servers.




