#M 1.47 Own fire section
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: planner

The definition of fire sections is of the utmost importance for the fire protection of a data center. The effect of reliable fire and smoke sections has impressively been confirmed in many large areas.

The requirements placed on fires or on the size of the fire departments of data centers should be in compliance with the relevant norms, such as those in the relevant standards. go to the state building regulations or the DIN 4102 fire behavior of building materials and components, demands made.

The protection goal for the fire wall or the fire compartment should not only be personal and building protection, but also the protection of the inventory and its availability. Thus, not only the fire spread by flame action and hot flue gases, but also heat radiation and the spread of cold smoke is to be prevented.

The heat radiation still permissible according to DIN 4102 can already have a destructive effect on the building equipment, in particular in the heat-sensitive IT sector. For this reason, several fire and smoke sections in the construction project should be realized, which are as large as necessary and as small as possible.

For a data center, it must be examined to what extent further internal fire sections should be created. Should a separate fire section be required for the core units (IT rooms, data archive), walls, doors and also necessary wall and ceiling openings must meet the F90 requirements ,

In addition to the legally required consideration of the standard DIN 4102, compliance with limit values ??of the maximum relative humidity (from the standard EN 1047-2, Section 4.1, Table 1) should be observed for data centers, server rooms and data archives ,

If the fire section of the data center z. B. Housing office units that are in direct operational connection with the data center, within the fire compartment, F30 walls and T30 doors between these offices and the data center core area are sufficient. The offices are then to be included in the fire alarm system. Børo units without operational reference to the computer center are to be arranged in other fire compartments.

It is to be planned and also in operation to ensure that no special fire loads are present in rooms located in the fire section of the data center.



