#M 1.70 Central uninterruptible power supply
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, building services

With an uninterruptible power supply (UPS), a momentary power failure can be bridged or the power maintained until an orderly shutdown of connected computers is possible. This is especially useful

* if extensive data is buffered in the computer (eg cache memory in the network server), before being transferred to non-volatile memory,
* In the event of a power failure, a large volume of data would be lost and subsequently recorded again.
* if the stability of the power supply is not sufficiently ensured.


Three types of UPS are to be distinguished:

* VFD UPS (Voltage and Frequency Dependent) In normal operation, the connected loads are fed directly from the power supply network. Only when this happens, the UPS will automatically switch on and take over the supply. This requires a VFD UPS up to 10 ms (Umschaltl cke), which may already be too much for some IT devices. Since the VFD UPS is not involved in the power supply of the connected consumers in normal operation, it was formerly called offline UPS. VFD stands for Voltage and Frequency Dependent, meaning that in normal operation the output of the UPS both in terms of voltage and frequency depends directly on the input. This means that minor power line faults can go directly to consumers powered by a VFD UPS.
* VI-UPS (Voltage Independent) In the case of a VI-UPS, the supply voltage is readjusted for smaller fluctuations (VI stands for Voltage Independent), without the UPS as such taking over the supply of the connected loads completely. The frequency at the output of a VI-UPS is, however, like a VFD UPS directly dependent on the supply network. Even with the VI-UPS can occur when switching to battery operation to a Umschaltl cke.
* VFI UPSVFI UPS (Voltage and Frequency Independent) normally no longer has a direct connection between the UPS input and output. The entire electrical energy is rectified on the input side and fed into the DC link. From there, the batteries are kept in the optimum state of charge and the inverter is supplied. The latter first generates the AC voltage required for the connected loads. The VFI UPS is thus constantly switched between mains and consumer. As a result, there is no switchover, which is why only the VFI UPS is truly interruption free. Since the entire power supply here always runs on the UPS, it was formerly referred to as an online UPS.


When comparing these three types of UPS, it is clear that the VFI UPS is the one with the best initial performance and is at least preferable for powering sensitive IT systems. Taking into account further quality features which are not dealt with here, a UPS classified according to DIN 62040-3 according to VFI-SS-111 represents the optimum for the IT supply.

Contrary to a repeated assumption, a UPS of any type does not provide overvoltage protection in the strict sense. A UPS is able to keep too high voltages away from the connected loads as part of its normal function. However, a UPS does not help against overvoltages such as those that are intercepted by the overvoltage protection equipment. On the contrary, like all other electrical consumers, a UPS must be protected by suitable protective measures against overvoltages (see M 1.25 overvoltage protection).

When dimensioning a UPS, two aspects are important: the standby time and the output power.

The purpose of the UPS deployment, the nature of the IT supplied and the existence of further energy-saving measures must be taken into account when determining the time.

If the UPS-supplied IT is able to easily start and continue after a sudden shutdown of the power supply and its return, it is sufficient to design the UPS for short-term power failures. Since most power outages are resolved within a few minutes, a 10 to 15 minute bridging time seems appropriate.

On the other hand, if IT requires an orderly shutdown, such a short backup time should not be enough. Here it makes sense to wait a while after the power failure and not immediately shut down the systems. This waiting time is about 10 minutes. The time required for the shutdown (shutdown) is very different and must be determined individually for the connected IT systems. As a rule of thumb for the duration of such a case results for such cases:

Backup time = wait time plus twice the shutdown time

Typical values ??for the retention time are 30 to 60 minutes. The double approach of the shutdown time creates a safety cushion.

For special applications (eg telecommunication systems), the required backup time can be several hours. Any replacement or addition of equipment supplied by a UPS must be re-tested as to whether the existing backup time is sufficient.

Changes in the required backup time can be made relatively easily by adjusting the battery capacity. The output looks different. The maximum output power is determined by the built-in DC and inverter electronic components. Here is a simple retrofit and thus increase the output usually not possible or only by extensive conversions. When determining the output power, you should plan for sufficient reserves.

The most sensitive part of a UPS is the battery. Only when housed at the optimum temperature specified by the manufacturer (typically around 20 C) can it achieve maximum performance and service life. Per 10  Kelvin, by which this setpoint temperature is exceeded, the performance and service life are reduced by approximately 50 %. This makes it clear that, especially with large UPS systems, the battery-carrying battery and the heat-generating power electronics do not belong in a common room. To ensure that the UPS provides the required backup time, the actual backup time should be calculated approximately once a year. Some UPS systems have built-in Pr fmechanismen. If this is not the case, the value can be determined by a load test.

Since the UPS is the last bastion against the power outage in front of the IT hardware, it has great importance for ensuring availability. So it has the same protection needs as the IT supplied by the UPS. If the UPS-supplied IT systems are redundant, UPS systems should also be redundant. In addition, M 1.52 shows redundancy, modularity and scalability in the technical infrastructure.

In addition, a UPS must pay special attention to protection against unauthorized access, fire and water. A meaningful protection against fire makes it almost indispensable to accommodate redundant UPS units in separate fire compartments. This is the only way to prevent a fire from burning out after a short period of time.

As with all other electrical equipment, UPS systems should also be operated at the temperature ranges specified by the manufacturer. This is to be taken into account when dimensioning the cooling.

To maintain the protection of a UPS, it must be serviced regularly. For this, the maintenance intervals of the UPS provided by the manufacturer must be observed.



