#M 1.74 EMC-compatible power supply
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: building services

Absolutely indispensable basis for the failure-free function of modern IT systems as well as the support systems required for their operation (from UPS to NEA to air conditioning) is an EMC-capable power supply. Although this topic is so complex that it eludes a comprehensive description in an IT Baseline Protection Measure, the essential basics are to be presented here, without which any further measures remain unsuccessful.

TN-S system and central grounding point

Since October 2010, NormDINVDE0100-444 Low Voltage Installations, Part 4-444: Protective measures - Protection against disturbing voltages and electromagnetic disturbances in Part 444.4.3.1 of TN-C systems contains the following statement:

TN-C systems may not be used in newly constructed buildings that contain or are likely to contain a significant number of information technology equipment. It is recommended that TN-C systems not be maintained in existing buildings if these buildings contain or are likely to contain a significant number of information technology equipment.

And for TN-S systems it says in part 444.4.3.2:

Systems in newly erected buildings must be constructed from the feed-in as a TN-S system. Existing buildings that contain or are likely to contain significant information technology equipment and which are supplied from a public low-voltage grid should be equipped with a TN-S system from the beginning of the installation.

Thus, the VDE takes into account the fact that for the proper operation of IT systems as a minimum requirement, the power supply network must be constructed as a TN-S system. The guideline VDI 3551 Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) in the Technical Equipment of 01-2011 also supports the requirements for a TN-S system with automatic monitoring.

The main difference between the two forms TN-C and TN-S is that in the TN-S system there is only one point at which the N conductor and the PE conductor are connected together. This point is the central grounding point (ZEP).



Since with the TN-S system, the entire further installation is carried out in 5-wire (the three phases as well as N and PE separated) starting from the ZEP, it is also called the 5-wire network.

The ZEP is as close as possible to the feed. It is not just the functional heart of a TN-S system. It also represents a first, very easy to use measuring point for the goods of the TN-S system, ie for the EMC suitability of the power supply. As seen from the ZEP, the entire PE system of the power supply is a dead end, so there is no further connection with another conductor system, especially with the N-conductor, according to pure physics, no current can flow through the ZEP.

Note: In Switzerland, some responsible energy suppliers are even already beginning to implement the ZEP in their area of ??responsibility, ie directly at the distribution point from which an end user is supplied. This eliminates the ZEP from the end user.

Unfortunately, modern electronic devices, ie almost all IT devices via power supplies, which cause a more or less high current on the PE system, the so-called leakage current. In accordance with the current standard design, this must not exceed approx. 0.2 Promille of the working current. For a 1 A working current, a maximum leakage current of 0.2 mA is permissible. This current inevitably flows via the ZEP and can be measured there. Since the leakage current is limited in relation to the working current, it can be determined from the comparison between the actual values ??of working and leakage current whether the TN-S system is operated properly.

If the current through the ZEP is too high, this can have several causes. The two main causes are firstly defects in devices or secondly that there is at least one other, ie impermissible, connection between the PE system and the N conductor in addition to the ZEP somewhere in the network. In the first case the defective device has to be exchanged. In the second case, this additional PE-N connection (also called zeroing) must be eliminated.

Measuring point, measurability

However, the measurement of the current through the ZEP is far from everything that can and must be done for the proper operation of a TN-S system. The network, and here in the first place the distributions, must be constructed mechanically, so with sufficient space, so that at least in the supply lines of the distributions the following measurements can be carried out with a clamp meter:

* Power via the ZEP (This should be easy to find by labeling the installation location accordingly.)
* Current of each individual conductor (L1, L2, L3, N, PE)
* Current of all three phases together (L1 & L2 & L3)
* Current over the three phases and the N-conductor (L1 & L2 & L3 & N)


With these measured values, experts are able to gain further important information on the operating status of the TN-S system.

However, such measurements with a clamp meter only ever provide snapshots, which may be valuable, but do not allow a conclusive statement about the EMC suitability of the power supply. Additional measures are required for this.

power analysis

A truly reliable statement about the events in the power supply is possible only through a permanent network monitoring and analysis. The following values ??must be measured in real time at important nodes of the power supply and recorded for a later evaluation:

* Currents, voltages and frequencies on all 5 conductors
* Active, reactive and apparent power
* Frequency level up to 100 kHz


It is only with such real-time recordings that it is possible to detect time courses and thus to make statements about which causes underlie individual disturbances. It is by no means sufficient to determine only the harmonics levels up to 1 kHz as summation graph over a certain time window.

Separation intervals on routes and in distributions

One of the major causes of power line disruptions to IT systems is magnetic fields. Magnetic fields are only with extreme effort and therefore not shieldable in practice. The only thing that would be expedient here is distance. But this is usually not given in the distributions and cable trays. Therefore, special attention must be paid to not even create such fields. Again, due to the complexity of the topic, only a few key pointers are given.

The distance between the three phases and the associated N conductor should always be kept as small as possible. On cableways this is relevant if z. For reasons of laying technology, the five conductors (L1, L2, L3, N, PE) are laid as individual conductors.



With this type of installation, the relatively large distances between the three phases (L1, L2, L3) and the N conductor cause large magnetic fields, which couple in both the PE conductor and the cable support system and induce unwanted currents there.



If, however, the single cores are laid as a 5-conductor bundle, ie every bundle with L1, L2, L3, N and PE, the magnetic fields are much smaller and thus also the induced currents and their negative consequences.

In distributions, care must be taken that the N conductor is not routed through the distribution in separate ways, but that it is always routed as close as possible to the three phases. Such a narrow installation is the simplest and at the same time most effective means of counteracting the formation of electromagnetic fields.

On the other hand, the PE conductor may and should be routed in distributions spatially separated from the L1-L2-L3-N quartet. This distance greatly reduces the magnetic coupling of currents to the PE conductor.

In addition, it should be pointed out that the conductor distances specified in the lightning protection standard DIN EN 62305: 2006-10 Lightning protection must be complied with when installing surge arresters.

Furthermore, the separation distance according to DIN EN 50174-2 Installation of communication cabling - Part 2: Installation planning and installation practices in buildings and according to the standard VDE 0100-444: 2010 Low-voltage installations - Part 4-444: Protective measures - Protection at Observe withstand voltages and electromagnetic disturbances. However, the demands made can rarely be met. But here are at least the normative given distances as far as possible to realize.



