#M 1.3 Adapted distribution of circuits
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: building services

According to experience, the room occupancy and the connection values ??for which an electrical installation was designed no longer correspond with the actual conditions after some time. It is therefore indispensable to check the electrical installation and, if necessary, to adapt it to any changes in the use of the space and changes and additions to the technical equipment (IT, air conditioning units, lighting, etc. This can be done in simple cases by relocation of lines. In some cases, however, it may also be necessary to fully install new infeeds, lines, distributors, etc. in addition.

Both in terms of safety and considering the ever-faster data connections on copper lines, it is highly recommended that the power distribution network throughout the building be designed as a TN-S network. This is also a requirement ofDINVDE0100-444. The PE and N conductors are routed separately from the equipotential bonding rail (PAS). Single measures on IT equipment are then usually no longer required. Note, however, the note in M 1.28 Local uninterruptible power supply regarding the creation of a new TN-S network for the connected devices.

To ensure the long-term effectiveness of TN-S network design, it must be ensured that the connection between the PE conductor and the neutral conductor at the PAS (zeroing) is the only one in the entire network. However, it can not be ruled out in practice that a new connection between the PE conductor and the N conductor is created by mistake when connecting new equipment or switching work in the network. Therefore, changes in the data network should be coordinated with the building services. In addition, a TN-S network should be checked for correct nullification at regular intervals. This can be done with the tests of the power supply network to be carried out anyway and with suspicions (for example, long-term non-specific disturbances in the data network). Ideally, a TN-S network is equipped with permanent differential current monitoring.

As soon as high or very high demands are placed on the availability of the IT, it is customary and appropriate for the IT to be supplied via two independent electrical supply lines and the use of IT devices with two power supply units.

The important consumers (memory components, central network nodes, important servers) are connected to the independent supplies, network 1 and network 2 (see figure). Other IT components, to which only a few high demands are placed, are evenly distributed among the supply lines.



In this case, it must be ensured, especially with devices that are simply connected, that devices that provide each other with redundancy are not connected to the same supply. In addition, the devices must be distributed equally to their power consumption in both directions.



