#M 1.76 Appropriate selection and use of a local workplace
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, Employees, Supervisors

Responsible for implementation: employees, supervisors

The location and equipment of a workplace must be in line with the work to be carried out at that workplace. The general distribution of workplaces in a building must reconcile the basic conditions and processes and the need for protection of the activity.

Workplaces with public access must be placed in such a way that they can be reached by customers and visitors without them having to pass through security-relevant areas. On the other hand, work processes in which the confidentiality of the processed documents plays a special role, preferably take place where visitors, but also employees of other departments have no free access.

The technical equipment, the furniture, the space conditions and the general working conditions must be adequate to the main activity. In addition to the basic work surface, there must be sufficient space for further typical activities.

* The work surface must provide sufficient space for PCs, telephones, files and other work equipment.
* There must be sufficient storage space, such as closable cabinets, to protect material from unauthorized access.
* There must be sufficient connections for electricity, IT networks and telephone for the employee himself and possibly also other employees or visitors.
* The work environment must allow for productive work through controllable room temperature, adequate ventilation, adequate lighting and isolation from sources of noise.
* Where tasks are often done by groups, there must be enough room for meetings. In addition, organizational and work tools of group work such as panels, map tables or projection screens and projectors must be available and there must be sufficient space for their use.


It is advisable to combine the work areas of groups of employees whose tasks have high or very high protection requirements into sections of the building in such a way that also sanitary areas and communal areas such as meeting rooms and tea rooms, as well as Places for printers and copiers are present in such a contiguous separate section of the building. This section of the building can then easily be turned into an autonomous access control area.

Many workplaces can be set up only to a very limited extent by employees and must generally be used as they were. Therefore, the supervisor must always first decide whether the security level of the respective environment is suitable for carrying out the tasks there.



