#M 1.17 Pfrtnerdienst
Responsible for initiation: Head of Internal Service

Responsible for implementation: internal service

Establishing a Pfister service has far-reaching positive effects against a whole range of dangers. However, it is a prerequisite that some basic principles are observed when carrying out the Pf rtner service.

* The gatekeeper observes or controls all movements of persons at the gate and at all other entrances.
* Supported by video surveillance, remote doors and gates can be monitored and controlled by the caretaker (see M 1.53 Video surveillance).
* The employee must be aware of the Pf rtner. It is recommended that well-known persons legitimize themselves at the Pf ,rtner, ie. B. show a house ID. If an employee leaves the institution or changes his / her position within the institution, the tutor must also be informed as of when this employee is to be refused admission or if access authorizations are to be changed.
* Unknown persons (even the new boss) have to identify themselves to the Pf rtner.
* In a visitor's book the access of foreign persons to the building can be documented. The issue of visitor badges or visitor tickets is to be considered.
* Visitors are accompanied to the visitors or picked up at the gate. If visitors are allowed to enter the building unaccompanied, it must first be verified that this is possible without any security concerns. The respective framework conditions must be documented in advance. For example, a list of trustworthy long-term visitors may be provided who, upon receipt of a visitor badge, may enter the building unaccompanied.
* If the gate is manned around the clock, alarms and alarming technology may always or only outside normal working hours accumulate. On the basis of alarm lists for the messages, the gatehouse forwards the messages to responsible employees or external authorities in charge.


The working conditions of the guardian are to be adapted to the task perception. The task description must stipulate bindingly which duties the Pf rtner plays in the interaction with further protection measures (eg .Guilding security after service or business closing, arming of the alarm system, control of the Au ent ren and window) ,

When defining the tasks, it must be noted that the assigned tasks do not break any security gaps. If a gate is occupied by only one guardian and he has no opportunity to close the gate temporarily, he may not be instructed or allowed to accompany visitors to certain visits.



