#M 1.48 Fire alarm system in the data center
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: planner

In a data center, the installation of a fire alarm system is of the utmost importance, in addition to the establishment of a fire protection system specially tailored to the IT sector, as well as alarm and operational plans.

Since more than 90% of all data center fires are caused by fire in the surrounding area, it is advisable to integrate these areas into the surveillance of the fire detection system. Pulse or trend detectors (eg with optical scattered light principle) should be used.

For the monitoring of IT areas, at least when there is a very high need for protection in terms of availability, in addition to the detectors on the ceiling and possibly in the raised floor, there is a fire detection system (see M  1.54 Fire prevention / extinguishing technology recommended.

The identification of the triggering detector must be possible. For the localization of the source of the fire and the spreading of the fire, this identification of the fire detector is a particularly important aid.

A recommended minimum configuration of a fire alarm system in the infrastructure consists of

* Smoke detectors on the ceiling and in the raised floor of all rooms of the electrical supply (distributions, UPS)
* Thermal maximum or thermal differential detectors in the rooms of the emergency power system
* Smoke detectors on the ceiling and in the raised floor of all rooms of the air conditioning technology
* Duct detectors in the air ducts for supply air and exhaust air
* Detectors in the fresh air intake, with automatic blocking of the fresh air when disturbances are detected.


All notifications of the fire alarm system and also malfunction reports should be kept in a permanently occupied position, eg. the Pflortnerloge, accumulate.

If possible, a direct connection to the professional fire brigade should take place. Due to the Aufschaltebedingungen the professional fire brigade the further conditions for the operation of the BMA are given.



## Examples 
* Is the functionality of the fire alarm system checked regularly?
* Is there a fire protection system specially tailored to the IT sector?




