#M 1.68 Professional installation
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

The installation work of the IT cabling requires special expertise and care. If manufacturers of cables and passive components offer warranties that go beyond the statutory minimum, this is often only on the condition that a company with a certified qualification carries out the installation.

The decisive criteria for a professional execution of the IT cabling should be checked by the client at all stages.

First, when the material is delivered, check whether the correct cables and connection components have been supplied. Matching categories of cables and connection components (eg shielding) are the first test step.

If the cables and associated material are not installed immediately, ensure adequate storage. The storage location must be dry and protected from strong climatic influences.

It is recommended to leave the stored material in its original packaging until it is installed.

When laying IT cables, special care should be taken to ensure that the installation does not cause any damage and that the cable routes are chosen so that damage to the routed cables through normal use of the building is excluded.

In addition, it is generally important to ensure that IT cables are routed separately from the electrotechnical cabling. Even dividers on shared routes usually help to prevent interference of the IT cable with power cables.

When laying, careful measures and load limits must be observed:

* Prior to installation, wall penetrations and similar passages must be deburred and rounded to avoid mechanical damage to the cable sheath during insertion and mounting.
* The minimum bending radius for laying and operation must not be undercut. If this is not noted on the cable, according to EN 50173, the minimum permissible bending radius must not be less than 8 times the outside diameter of the cable. Accordingly, it must be ensured that bends in cable ducts and cable ducts correspond to the permissible bending radii.
* If necessary, the manufacturer specifies two bending radii for the cables in data sheets: the specified bending radius with the larger value is the maximum bending load for pulling in the cables. The smaller value applies to the finished cable.
* The data sheet also shows the maximum tensile load of the cable type.
* When using a cable, only suitable lubricants may be used as a retraction aid. Generally  l- and grease-free lubricants (eg talc) should be used.
* When fastening the cables to cable routes with cable ties or cable clamps, the cables must never be squeezed.


Cables should be routed under plaster, in cable ducts or on cable trays. The open laying of cables is absolutely permissible, but it must be ensured that no damage to the cable can occur, for example, by moving over cables with furniture or transport equipment.



