#M 1.19 burglary protection
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: building services

According to experience, burglars select their goals according to how high the risk and effort in relation to the expected profit. Therefore, all anti-intrusion measures should aim to minimize the chances of success of any party. The usual anti-burglary measures should be adapted to the local circumstances. These include:

* Burglar-resistant doors and windows, for example with resistance class RC2 (according to DIN 1627: 2011-09 Doors, windows, curtain walls, grille elements and shutters - Burglar resistance - requirements and classification) or higher, if the danger situation requires it makes,
* Roller shutters for entry-level doors or windows,
* special lock cylinders, additional locks and latches,
* Securing of basement light shacks,
* Closure of unused side entrances,
* burglar-proof emergency exits,
* Closure of persons and goods outside the service period.


Recommendations are given by the local counseling centers of the Criminal Police.

All anti-burglary measures should reasonably form a consistently equivalent shell around the area that is to be protected against unauthorized access. Doors must be installed in sufficiently strong walls. Ventilation openings are to be barred in a suitable manner. (maximum grid width 10x20 cm). Access control measures must also be implemented in double floor areas and over suspended ceilings. The equivalency and consistency of protection against burglary should be assessed regularly by a competent person during planning, during implementation and later during operation.

When planning material security measures, it must be ensured that provisions on fire and personal protection, eg. B. the usability of escape routes, are not violated. This applies in particular to changes to fire protection elements that are subject to type approval.

Employees must be informed of the regulations and measures to be taken to prevent break-ins, for example doors, windows or shutters must be closed in the evening.

Even within a building, the installation of burglary-resistant elements may be useful. Hedging should be considered for special access-controlled areas, such as management rooms, server rooms or the core units of a data center.



