#M 1.7 Handfeuerlscher
Responsible for initiation: fire protection officer, head of building services

Responsible for implementation: fire protection officer, building services

Most of the fires are made up of small, initially easily controlled fires. Especially in B ros the fire finds plenty of food and can spread very quickly. The immediate control of brothers is therefore very important.

This immediate killing is only possible if manual fire extinguishers in the appropriate fire class (DINEN 3 portable fire extinguishers) are available in sufficient numbers and size (advice from the local fire brigade) in the building Standing. In addition, it must be regularly checked on the maintenance record of each extinguisher that the extinguishers are also regularly inspected and maintained so that they function properly in the event of an emergency.

Water-based liners suitable for fire class A up to 1000 V are perfectly suitable for electrically operated appliances.

For electronically controlled devices, eg. B. calculator, carbon dioxide (fire class B) should preferably be available. The leaching effect is achieved by displacing the oxygen, so care should be taken when used in narrow, poorly ventilated rooms.

Powder extinguishers, which cover the fire classes A (solids), B (flammable liquids) and C (gases), should not be used in areas with electrical and electronic equipment, because the risk of damage in usually unreasonably high. It is therefore strongly recommended not to have powder extinguishers in the immediate vicinity of server rooms, data archives, premises for technical infrastructure and data centers, but to have only suitable gas extinguishers available. Only then can it be prevented that a pulse extinguisher is used in the excitation of a fire.

The fire extinguishers must be regularly checked and maintained. The fire extinguishers must be installed so that they are easily accessible in case of fire. Employees should remember the location of the nearest fire extinguisher. The locations of extinguishers and hydrants are to be indicated by prescribed signs. Portable fire extinguishers are approved up to a total weight of 20 kg. With the predominantly used devices of 6 and 12 kg, larger sources of fire can be extinguished than is generally assumed by laymen, but this is only possible with a consistent approach. Only a few seconds pass before the extinguishing agent is completely discharged. Therefore, with appropriate fire protection exercises, the staff must be instructed in the use of the manual fire extinguishers and the operation of the extinguishers must also be carried out.



