#M 1.45 Suitable storage of official documents and data carriers
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: employees

Official documents and data media may only be accessible to authorized persons. This is also outside the official office buildings, ie. B. at a home or a mobile workstation. Outside the period of use, they must be stored in such a way that no unauthorized person can access them.

All employees should have the possibility to lock away important and above all high-security data carriers and documents at their office workstation. For example, lockable desks, roll containers or cabinets can be used for this purpose. Employees must be informed that documents and data carriers requiring protection must be stored in a locked position.

The locks of these containers must at least withstand attacks with easy-to-make or easy-to-retrieve items (B roklammer, Dietrich, etc.). Mäbelschl sser should be used with at least 4 Zhaltungen and at least 1000 Schlie varianten. In addition, make sure that the closure is not by simply removing z. B. A back wall can easily be bypassed. Overall, the protective effect of the container should comply with the safety requirements of the documents and data carriers to be kept in it.

For this reason, it is also necessary to provide sufficient closable containers (desk, roll container, cupboard or the like) with adequate protective effect on domestic workplaces.

For workplaces on the road, neither official documents nor mobileIT systems should remain unattended. They should at least be secured against simple removal, so for example be provided with anti-theft devices, be closed in cabinets or other, simple measures to be taken. It is also advisable to transport official documents and mobile IT systems in a lockable briefcase.



