#M 1.77 Air conditioning for people
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: building services

In larger buildings, the air supply must be provided by ventilation and air conditioning (RLT) systems. HVAC systems provide for the transport (ventilation) and the conditioning (air conditioning) of the air. HVAC systems should create a climate favorable to people. In addition, they must ensure a hygienically perfect quality of the indoor air. This means that the air treated by an air-conditioning system does not pose a risk to health or disturbances of well-being, to avoid odor problems and to maintain thermal comfort.

A good air quality can not be generated exclusively by the air conditioning system. When choosing construction materials, floor coverings and furniture, attention must also be paid to the use of materials that do not unnecessarily and unnecessarily pollute the room air with pollutants.

The planning of state-of-the-art ventilation and air conditioning systems for non-residential buildings is described in the DENEN13779 Ventilation of non-domestic buildings - General principles and requirements for ventilation and air conditioning systems and room cooling systems. Together with the Workplace Ordinance, it determines in which rooms of the building which air quality requirements are to be met. DIN EN 13779 contains detailed specifications for

* the operative temperature
* the draft risk
* the relative humidity of the room
* the weighted sound pressure levels
* and other factors relevant to humans.


While high demands on air quality apply to offices and other permanently occupied rooms, the demand for rooms not occupied on a regular basis is lower. It is all the more important that, as required by the standard, the specifications for climate planning are specified by the client or the future user.

While cooling almost never presents a problem when creating a comfortable indoor climate, summer heat can be a major problem. The Workplace Ordinance requires health-giving indoor room temperatures and protection against excessive solar radiation for work spaces. In order to maintain a tolerable room climate on warm summer days, the RLT system must be supported by an effective shading of the windows.

RLT systems must be regularly serviced. Maintenance of HVAC systems not only helps to ensure reliable operation, but also to guarantee hygiene and thus the health of all users of the building. The maintenance of maintenance intervals and the careful execution of cleaning and filter changes must be checked and documented.

RLT systems must not be accessible to everyone and may need to be protected against sabotage.

The ventilation and air conditioning systems must also be taken into account in emergency planning (see module B 1.3 Emergency Management), in particular during shutdown and restart planning.



