#M 2.577 Selection of suitable crypto procedures for networks
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Communication networks transport data between IT systems. The data is rarely transmitted over a dedicated communication line between the partners involved in the communication. Rather, the data is passed through many intermediate stations. If the transmitted information is not to be intercepted by unauthorized third parties, manipulated by it or altered by technical errors, then a suitable cryptographic process should be used to protect the data for transport or transmission. In addition to the actual protection of information, the identification and authentication of systems among themselves, of systems to users and users to systems is also important.

Net-based cryptographic protection of information can be done on the different layers of the OSI reference model. For example, on layer 2, a location-based network access control for LAN and WLAN can be realized. Before an IT system (client) is granted access to a network, it must log on to an authenticator (eg switch, router or WLAN access point). The authenticator checks the transmitted authentication data with the help of an authentication server and releases access to the network depending on the outcome of this check.

Layer 3 cryptographically protects information typically with IPSecundIKE. IPSec provides encryption and integrity assurance features for IP communications. In combination with the Internet Key Exchange (ICE) procedure, an automated key exchange and authentication of tunnel endpoints can also be performed. A manual key exchange is also supported by IPS. However, user authentication must be done using other methods.

On layer 5 to 7 of the OSI model, the cryptographic protection of information is often done withSSL / TLS, PGP, S / MIMEetc.

Regardless of the selected method, care must be taken when selecting the information to select cryptographic methods for the respective application which correspond to the state of the art and have no known weak points (see also M 2.164 Selection of a suitable method) cryptographic method). Furthermore, the requirements of M 5.68 Use of encryption methods for network communication and M 2.46 Suitable key management must be observed.



