#M 2.479 Planning the security policies of Mac OS X
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

One of the key organizational tasks of introducing Mac OS X is to plan and define a corresponding security policy for Mac OS X. This policy should specify M 2.322 Setting a security policy for a client-server network and set the later security requirements for Mac OS X clients.

The security policy must be known to all users and other persons involved in the procurement and operation of the clients and be the basis for their work. As with all directives, their content and implementation must be regularly reviewed by a higher-level audit.

The requirements defined in the Mac OS X security policy are enforced by the appropriate security settings at the operating system level. In cases where technical measures are insufficient, they must be accompanied and supported by additional organizational measures. If possible, a technical solution should be given preference over an organizational one.

The security policy to be created must be based on the current security guidelines of the respective institution and must not contradict this. As a rule, the existing rules for Mac OS X will be adapted or extended accordingly. In particular, specific technologies of Mac OS X such as FileVault and Time Machine are to be considered. As a general rule, Mac OS X infrastructure planning is based on the applicable cross-security policy. However, the infrastructure has an impact on this cross-security policy through a feedback process. Last but not least, when creating the security policy, it must be ensured that applicable legal provisions are taken into account. The security policy for Mac OS X must be documented and communicated to the users of the client-server network to the required extent. All administrators should be aware of and enforce the security policy.

The following topics provide an overview of the areas of such a policy to be covered. Depending on the institution and the application scenarios to be implemented, further aspects must be considered.



## Examples 
* Change safety parameters,
* Evaluate log data,
* Grant access rights and system permissions,
* Passwords to change and deposit as well
* Perform backups and data restores.




