#M 2.22 Deposit the password
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: users

If access to an IT system is protected by a password, precautions must be taken in the absence of an employee, eg. on holiday or illness, to allow his representative access to the IT system.

There are various options for this, depending on the IT systems or IT applications used and the security guidelines of the respective organization. So z. B. the password can be deposited at a suitable location. In typical multi-user systems, the administrator can also release the required user rights or set the password to a new value. In many IT systems or IT applications, however, groups can be set up so that the registered representatives have access to the system in the absence.

All these solutions have various advantages, but also disadvantages, so that it is necessary to weigh exactly which solution is the most suitable in the respective situation.

The following examples are intended to show this:

The accountant Ms. M ller works on a Windows PC, which is connected as a client in a LAN. In order to cover all potential problem areas for the substitution case, her areas of responsibility were examined and solutions developed.

* It is responsible for the processing of all processes with the partner companies A-K. The data to be processed are in a database on the server PF1. In the case of substitution, their colleagues Schmidt and Eifrig can edit this data under their own user IDs because they have the appropriate authorizations in the database.


* Some of her documents are on her PC. It has been agreed that it will put all important files into project directories on the server. If access becomes necessary in the case of substitution, the administrator can make this possible. This must be documented in writing. Mrs. M ller will then receive an e-mail.
* Msller uses an old but stable IT application for the client management of the companies she supports. Since this technically does not allow substitution regulations to be introduced on the way to access authorizations, the representative Mr. Schmidt receives the password for their access. As a result, he can enter changes that occur in his absence.
* Some financially relevant processes must be authorized with a digital signature. All employees have been given personal cryptographic keys on chip cards that can not be forwarded. In the case of representation, you sign your representative with his digital signature.


The deposit of passwords is always associated with a great deal of organizational effort: When depositing a password, the current passwords required by each employee are located in a suitable location (eg in the secretariat in a safe in a closed envelope). Each time one of the passwords is changed, it must be updated. You must not forget a password. (Up to five different passwords may be required to access an application on a computer.) It must not be possible for unauthorized persons to access the stored passwords. If it becomes necessary to use one of the stored passwords, this should be done according to the four-eyes principle, ie. by two people at the same time. Every access to it must be documented.

Passwords should as far as possible be deposited only if there is no other (technical) solution. It should always be noted that the deposit of passwords gives a false signal character for the safe handling of passwords. Passwords can not be deposited under keyboards or similar locations nor shared among colleagues simply because it is easier than asking the administrator for a necessary access.

However, passwords should always be stored securely if they are the only way to access the IT system or the IT application. This is z. B. usually for administrator or single-user systems.

There should therefore be a regulation which describes what type of passwords should be deposited and what framework conditions should be set for them.

A teleworker must ensure that his passwords for the IT systems in the home office are also stored in the institution, so that in an emergency his representative can access the data stored in the telework calculator.

For all systems managed by administrators, especially in networked systems, regular checks must ensure that the current system administrator password has been entered.



