#M 2.294 Synchronization of z / OS passwords and RACF commands
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In large mainframe associations, many z / OS operating systems and their Resource Access Control Facility (RACF) databases often communicate with each other. There is often a need to synchronize password changes or RACF commands across multiple z / OS systems in the network.

Password synchronization automatically synchronizes users' passwords on multiple z / OS systems, so users only need to use one password.

With RACF command synchronization, RACF commands can be executed in parallel on several z / OS systems. The corresponding RACF command is entered on one system and forwarded to all other systems by the central RACF administration. RACF supports this with the RRSF (RACF Remote Sharing Facility) feature.

Such composites are also called synchronization composites. For a synchronization network, the following recommendations should be followed.



## Examples 
* Is the utmost standardization done on z / OS prior to setting up the synchronization federation, so that the structure and rules used in the RACF database are as similar as possible on all systems in the synchronization framework?
* Is password synchronization under z / OS set up so that the revoke of a user ID is not forwarded to all other systems in the synchronization network after repeated incorrect entry of the password?
* Is it ensured that the interface of the administration function of the synchronization program for z / OS systems is only available to authorized employees as part of their work?




