#M 2.345 Outsourcing of an SAP system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

When outsourcing SAP systems, note the following:

* The measures of module B 1.11 Outsourcing are to be implemented at the outsourcing partner.
* Special attention should be paid to smooth process integration so that, for example, feedback is received from the outsourcing partner to the outsourcing client. This also applies to the processes in the context of user and authorization management.
* It is recommended to set up a table with all the tasks that are required for an SAP system. In this table, it should be noted which tasks are performed by employees of the outsourcing partner and which by own staff. The responsible persons are to be documented. The following table is to be understood as an incomplete example and must be adapted to the local conditions. The tasks usually have to be refined into sub-tasks.




## Examples 
* As a rule, the computers and the basic administration of the SAP system are operated by the outsourcing partner. The application administration and administration is usually done by the outsourcing client. It should be noted that the outsourcing partner is informed about the application-specific (security) requirements. Only in this way can an adequate basic administration take place.
* Regular security coordination should take place. In the process, changed requirements of the outsourcing client and proposals of the outsourcing partner to increase security can be discussed.
* As part of the risk assessment, it should be remembered that the outsourcing partner has full control over the data of the operated SAP system. From a security point of view, this should be viewed critically by all authorities and companies. The availability of such controls is also being tested in the Sarbanes Oxley environment, for example.
* If sensitive data is processed that implies a special duty of care, which is also derived from legal requirements or explicitly required, then the outsourcing partner must also be held accountable. The outsourcing partner must then be legally bound by a corresponding secrecy obligation.
* For the user and authorization management, it makes sense that an employee of the outsourcing contractor is involved in the process of authorization planning, because only then can the outsourcing partner take into account the application-related security requirements. Outsourcing scenario no permissions can be accumulated?




