#M 2.217 Careful classification and handling of information, applications and systems
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Of course, employees should, of course, handle all information with care. In addition, there are data in many areas which have a higher protection requirement or are subject to special restrictions, eg. personal, financial, confidential or copyrighted data. Depending on their categorization, there are different restrictions on how to deal with them. Therefore it is important to inform all employees about the restrictions that apply to these data (see also M 3.2 Employees' obligation to comply with relevant laws, regulations and regulations).

Of course, the protection requirements of data directly affect all media on which they are stored or processed. Data with special protection requirements can arise in a wide variety of areas, eg. with fax or e-mail. There should therefore be regulations in all areas in which, for example, it is also stipulated who may read, process or pass on such data (see, for example, M 2.42 Definition of possible communication partners). This includes the regular checking for correctness and completeness of the data (see also M 4.64 Verifying the data to be transmitted before forwarding / removal of residual information).

Many information, but also applications, are subject to copyright notices or passing restrictions (for internal use only). All employees must be made aware that no documents, files or software may be copied without taking into account any copyright notices or license terms.

Special attention must also be paid to all information that forms the basis for the performance of the task. This includes all business-relevant data, ie z. B. the data which, if lost, will render the institution incapable of action, which may affect the economic relationships of cooperating companies, or from whose knowledge a third party (such as a competitor) may derive financial benefits. Each agency and company should have an overview of which data is critical to their business. In addition to general due diligence requirements, special rules and regulations may also apply to these data for storage, processing, transfer and destruction. Business critical information must be protected against loss, manipulation and misappropriation. Longer-term stored or archived data must be regularly tested for readability. Information that is no longer required must be reliably deleted (see also B .1.15 Deleting and destroying data).



