#M 2.76 Selection and installation of suitable filter rules
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Setting up and updating the filtering rules for a security gateway is not an easy task. The administrators must have a sound knowledge of the protocols used and be trained accordingly.

When setting up the filter rules, the following points should be noted:

* The reason and initiator of the control device must be suitably documented. This is important for later understanding why each filter rule was implemented. Without this information, it is often difficult to promptly identify contact persons of the applications that have been activated and to decide whether the rule can be deleted or changed.
* In principle, the whitelist strategy should be used, that is, the rules should be formulated so that all additions that are not explicitly allowed are prohibited.
* If there is a need for user-specific authentication, it must be clarified which users from the internal network are allowed to use which services and which authentication methods are to be used.
* All computers in the internal network must be taken into account.


* It must be determined which services should be available at which times.


The filter rules for packet filters should be summarized in a table whose one axis contains the destination IP addresses and whose other axis contains the source IP addresses. The entries then contain the permitted port numbers, with the upper one being the source port and the lower the destination port. Packet filters can, among other things, carry out the checking of the packets immediately after the reception or immediately before the forwarding. Normally, the first variant should be chosen. In addition, the packet filters must be configured in such a way that only the numbers of the computers connected to the interface are allowed as the sender address (ingress filtering). Addresses that are linked to the other interfaces must not be allowed through. This reduces the risk of IP spoofing attacks.



## Examples 
* Is the whitelisting policy applied to the filter rules of the security gateway to ban all connections that are not explicitly allowed?
* Are all computers in the inner network considered in the filter rules?
* Are the configured filter rules of the security gateway, eg. Eg by describing the respective function?
* Are only services that comply with the requirements of the security policy authorized on the security gateway?




