#M 2.79 Definition of responsibilities in the area of ??standard software
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, Head of Organization

Before the introduction of standard software, a number of responsibilities have to be regulated. Examples include the responsibilities for drawing up a catalog of requirements, pre-selection of products, testing and approval, and installation.

The following section compares how these responsibilities can be meaningfully distributed. However, because the terms in most organizations vary, some instances are pre-defined according to their tasks, to which the individual responsibilities can then be assigned:

* The department is the user of the standard software. It handles its need for new software and thus gives it the impetus to procure it. It participates in pre-selection and testing to meet the needs of users.
* The authority / management is responsible for the release of standard software. This responsibility is usually delegated to the head of the specialist department, which means that after release the responsibility for the correct use of the standard software is transferred to the specialist department.
* The IT department has the task of providing IT solutions for the fulfillment of the tasks of the specialist department and ensuring the secure and reliable operation of the IT.
* The procuring entity must ensure the interoperability and compatibility of the standard software to be procured as well as compliance with house standards and statutory provisions. Often there are IT coordinators in the individual departments, who advise on parts of the tasks of the procurement office for the specialist department and, if necessary, also coordinate the budget of the department.
* The budget is responsible for the accounting, the IT budget management and the provision of the required budget.
* The IT security officer must check whether the products used or to be procured ensure an adequate level of security. Within the scope of the safety management (see module B 1.0 Safety Management) he must ensure the IT security during operation.
* The data protection officer must ensure compliance with data protection regulations and adequate protection of personal data.
* In many cases, the Personnel and Works Council must be involved in the selection of new standard software, especially if this involves major changes in the workflow or if the software to be procured is suitable for performance control (see M 2.40 Timely Participation of the personnel / works council).


In the overall standard software process, it must be determined for each individual step which of the instances described above are responsible for the execution and which instances have to be involved. A possible meaningful distribution of responsibilities is summarized for orientation in the following table:

The assignments made must be made binding and their observance must be periodically checked.



