#M 2.10 Checking the hardware and software inventory
Responsible for initiation: authority / company management, IT security officer, supervisor, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

In order to be able to ascertain violations of the prohibition on the use of unauthorized hardware and software, a regular check of the hardware and software inventory is necessary. If the number of IT systems is very large, a random check can be carried out. The results of the check must be documented in order to detect recurrent cases.

If unauthorized hardware is found during the check, it must be ensured that the IT components are no longer operated in a manner that is not compliant. It must also be determined who is responsible for the operation in order to be able to take appropriate action. In the case of specific suspicions, the control of the hardware for manipulation and additional devices, which may be of interest to the user. used to record keystrokes.

If unapproved software is found during the check, the removal must be initiated. In order to be able to carry out this check, the inspecting authority must be given the appropriate authority by the company or authority management. In addition, the inspecting authority must be aware of which software has been released on which IT system (software inventory).

In order to be able to efficiently manage a software inventory with the multitude of commonly used software, a corresponding tool should be used for this purpose. It should be network capable for the typical client-server environment.

Before the establishment of a regulation for checking the hardware and software inventory, the works council or staff council should be consulted.

For those IT systems that are not required for the effective operation of the IT network, such as eg. Test systems, a periodic review can be performed instead of a regular check. For example, the test can be performed on such IT systems whenever changes are made to the configuration or when the IT system is put back into operation after a long break. However, it is a prerequisite that for all IT systems the measure M 2.9 Prohibition of use of unreleased hardware and software is a force.



