#M 2.312 Conception of an information security training and awareness program
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, supervisor

Employees are key success factors in establishing and maintaining information security in an institution. It is they who use or administrate technical protection systems, who more or less carefully observe the guidelines and specifications and who can make safety-relevant errors out of ignorance or intent.

The technical and organizational measures implemented as part of a security concept have a manifold effect on the individual employees. For example, they may be forced to change their passwords regularly, may not enter certain areas of the institution without authorization, have their employee ID cards visibly attached, or attend security training sessions on a regular basis.

It should therefore be the aim of every institution that all employees recognize, accept and actively support the value and necessity of adequate information security for the performance of their duties and the continued existence of the institution. They should respect the existing regulations and policies and their behavior should help to maintain and develop information security. They should also recognize safety-critical situations as early as possible and react to them correctly.

This requires a systematic sensitization of the employees, which is to be anchored in the institution through a continuous process. Building on awareness-raising, staff should receive all the necessary information and skills through complementary training (see M M 2.557 Designing an information security training program). Awareness and training programs are thus closely related topics that should be given high priority at all organizational levels. Management needs to support the measures to ensure that the awareness of the sensitization measures is recognizable and that the resources required for planning, implementation and maintenance are available (see M 3.96 Management support for Awareness and training).

The following are the steps that can be used to create an awareness program:

Set the goal of awareness

Awareness-raising for information security means protecting employees' awareness of information security and training their security awareness in line with the institution's needs.

At the beginning of sensitization, a goal should be defined and further refined in the further course of this action. For example, content can be developed precisely and the success of the measures can be measured. Target definition should focus on why information security is important to the institution and its people.

Example of a target definition:

* Employees recognize the importance of information security for the institution and its workplace. They know the relevant hazards and can assess the effects of security incidents and violations of applicable regulations. They accept information security measures and are willing to respect them and actively participate in their maintenance and development in their work environment.


Perform audience analysis

Audience analysis identifies employees with comparable information security characteristics, such as: B.Administrators, Human Resources or External Employees. Furthermore, developments of the employee career that are characteristic of the institution should be considered here as well. B.Distribution, function or relocation.

Target group analysis allows awareness-raising activities to be adapted to specific needs and backgrounds (see M 3.93 Sensitivity and training program targeting).

To specify the goal of sensitization per target group

The awareness-raising measures are to be prepared for the target group. As a result, z. B. Effects of safety precautions for the respective employees are described as practically as possible. Furthermore, it has proven to be extremely effective to include examples from the private environment of employees in awareness programs, such as the loss of digital photos from the last vacation or a lost smartphone.

Set awareness content

Awareness campaigns can include any topic that justifies why information security is important to the institution and its people. Count on it. B. Relevant dangers or exemplary as well as real Sicherheitsvorf lle where proper behavior can be trained. Care should be taken to ensure that sufficient content is closely related to the institution and the target group addressed. In addition, examples from similar institutions or meaningful publications may underpin the content.

Select media and methods

Such media and methods should be selected that are closely aligned with the prevailing culture of the institution. The goal is to reach employees with reasonable costs as impressively and sustainably as possible and to sensitize them to information security. That is, employees' perceptions, emotions, and abilities for vulnerabilities and incidents in their work environment need to be strengthened to recognize, evaluate, and respond to them in a timely manner. In doing so, it is necessary to dispense with purely instructional texts, detailed and detailed written regulations and a terminology that is incomprehensible to the target group in favor of short and accurate communication (see also M 3.47 Implementation of Information Security Planning Games).

Implement awareness-raising activities

Awareness and training are closely related topics that complement and build on each other's implementation. Awareness raising should motivate employees to act (see M 2.198 Raising awareness among information security staff). The correct behaviors are then further supported by appropriate training measures (see M 2.557 Designing an Information Security Training Program). In practice, it is a great challenge to interest information security professionals and to maintain proper behavior. As is known, learning curves after training courses without supporting measures decline quickly. Therefore, the learning material must be replaced by appropriate measures, eg. For example, by regular repetitions, be consolidated (see M 3.95 learning protection).

Measure the success of sensitization

The success of the defined awareness objectives must be measured and evaluated. For this purpose, the awareness level of the participants before, during and after the measure should be recorded by means of suitable indicators or criteria. This helps to track whether the campaign is successful and how awareness is developing. Further information is shown in measure M 3.94 Measurement and Evaluation of Learning Outcomes.

Update awareness program

Information security is subject to permanent change in an institution. IT systems, processes, service spectrums, competitive situations are changing and, as a result, also vulnerability situations, risk assessments and required security measures. In addition, the results of the previous sensitization measures must be considered, in particular necessary changes due to the measurement and evaluation of the learning outcome.

These changes must therefore be carefully analyzed. The awareness program should be regularly updated.



