#M 2.256 Planning and maintaining information security in ongoing outsourcing operations
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

Once an outsourcing project has been implemented, information security must be guaranteed during ongoing operations. For this purpose, an operating concept must be planned for the outsourcing project, in which the safety aspects are also taken into account. In general, the IT-related individual tasks do not differ from those that have to be planned and carried out if no outsourcing is carried out (see M 2.199 Maintaining Information Security).

However, special features arise from the fact that the tasks are distributed among several parties and therefore additional tasks (eg voting and controls) are incurred. These include:

* Documentation and guidelines must be updated regularly.


* The valid security concepts of all parties involved must be checked to see whether they are still coordinated and guarantee the required level of security. In particular, the outsourcing service provider should inform the client about important changes in his sphere of influence.


* Regular checks on the following aspects are to be carried out: Execution of the agreed audits Implementation status of the agreed safety measures Maintenance status of systems and applications Rights assignment by the service provider (misuse of rights) Use of employees who have not been reported to the client, eg. Eg for representationsPerformance, availability, quality level data backup


* Regular meetings should be held on the following points: Information must be exchanged between the partners (eg personnel news, organizational regulations, changes to the law, planned projects, intended tests and system changes that would undermine compliance) Service quality can be achieved) .Problems must be identified and analyzed. Important are mutual feedback and the identification of potential for improvement. To motivate the employees, particularly positive examples of successful cooperation can be presented. Change management: Changes (hardware, software, expansion of the service portfolio, increased demand for resources, etc.) should be discussed in good time.


* Regular exercises and tests must be carried out on the following topics: Reaction to system failures (partial failure, total failure) Restoring backups Mastering security incidents




