#M 2.74 Appropriate selection of a packet filter
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The functions of a security gateway at the transport and network level are taken over by the so-called packet filters. The task of a packet filter is to process data packets based on the information in the header data of the UDP / IP or TCP / IP layer (eg IP address and port number). This decision is made by the packet filter based on the filter rules specified by the administrator. In many cases, the packet filters also offer a possibility for Network Address Translation (NAT), in which the sender addresses of IP packets are replaced by an IP address of the packet filter. This obscures the network structure of the network to be protected.

The filter rules are processed sequentially for each incoming data packet. As soon as a rule applies to a package, the verification usually stops and the rule in question is applied to that package.

Packet filters can be further subdivided on the basis of the filter options.



## Examples 
* Forward or discard packets based on the source IP and destination IP addresses of individual hosts or networks of the source and destination ports of the ICMP type of all TCP flags (URG, ACK, PSH, RST, SYN, FIN). By means of the ACK bit, for example, a distinction can be made between packets for establishing a connection and packets in the context of an established connection. By controlling the other bits, IP packets can become nonsensical combinations of TCP flags of denied IP options.
* Supporting the actions Forwarding the package (allow) Discarding the package (deny & drop) Discarding the package and message to the sender (deny & reject)
* Creation of filter rules separated for each interface of the packet filter
* Separate filtering of incoming and outgoing packets
* Unconditional determination of the sequence for processing the filter rules
* Log IP address, service, time and date for each packet, but also limited to specific packets
* In the case that a router is used as a packet filter, the dynamic routing must be configurable so that routing packets (eg RIP) concerning the network to be protected are only allowed on the interface that also uses connected to the network to be protected.
* Protection against IP spoofing
* If only a packet filter without ALG is used as a security gateway, the following functions must also be supported: Port forwarding (also often called Destination NAT) Network Address Translation (NAT). Also support for: Replacing IP ID Replacement of TTLStateful Inspection




