#M 2.255 Secure migration for outsourcing projects
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

After commissioning the outsourcing service provider, a provisional security concept must first be developed in which the test and introduction phase is also considered as part of the outsourcing project. On the one hand, many external users are involved in this phase, on the other hand processes must be established, tasks transferred and systems newly set up or adapted. A careful test operation is therefore of great importance. Especially for test purposes and in phases of heavy workload flexible and uncomplicated solutions are often chosen, which are rarely very safe. It is therefore important, for example, to ensure that productive data is not used as test data without special protection. This must be excluded by the security concept.

Before creating a migration concept as part of the security concept for an outsourcing project, a security management team must have been specially set up for the migration phase at the client. It must pay attention to security issues during the migration phase and take appropriate measures to ensure that IT operations are safe during the migration, even before the migration. The size of the security management team depends on the nature and size of the outsourcing project, as a minimum it can consist of a security expert.

The safety management team is assigned the following tasks from which rules and specifications are derived that must be included in the migration concept:

* It is a mixed team of employees of the client and the outsourcing service provider to form. This can also be reinforced by external experts in order to make special know-how available.
* For the migration phase, a security concept must be created.
* The responsibilities and hierarchies for the migration phase must be defined. It is important to establish clear leadership structures and to define clear contacts on both sides. In addition, it must be ensured that responsibilities are defined on both sides, even at high levels. This is the only way to ensure that, if in doubt, action can be taken with appropriate emphasis.
* The necessary tests have to be planned and carried out, approval procedures have to be prepared and the introduction of the production has to be planned.
* Appropriate internal staff are to be selected for the test, introduction phase and later operation. Contractually, a client can, of course, also have a say in the personnel selection of the outsourcing service provider.
* The employees of the client are to be trained in behavior during and after the migration phase. As a rule, employees are confronted with new and unknown contact persons. This carries the risk of social engineering (eg call a supposed employee of the security team of the service provider).
* The service provider must know the relevant processes, applications and IT systems of the client exactly and be instructed accordingly.
* Trouble-free operation must be ensured by accurate resource planning and testing. The productive systems should not be neglected. For this purpose, it must be checked in advance whether the planned employees are available. In addition, faults must be taken into account by means of necessary tests.
* Applications and IT systems that the service provider is to take over must be sufficiently documented. The examination of the documentation for completeness must be considered as well as the adaptation of the existing documentation to the changed boundary conditions by the outsourcing project. The documentation of new systems or subsystems must also be ensured.
* During the migration, it is necessary to constantly check whether the SLAs or the security measures provided need to be adapted.


During the introduction phase of the outsourcing project and the first period of operation, special attention must be given to the emergency approach. Until all parties involved have established the necessary routine, for example, in the handling of malfunctions and security-relevant incidents, employees must be strengthened to stand-by services.

After the migration has been completed, it must be ensured that the security concept is updated, as experience has shown that there are always changes during the migration phase. This means in particular:

* All security measures must be specified.
* Contacts and responsibilities are documented with names and necessary contact details (telephone, times of availability, possibly required assignment terms such as customer numbers).
* The system configurations must be documented, whereby the set safety-relevant parameters must also be recorded.


* The staff is to be prepared for normal operation by training measures.


As a final task, the outsourcing project must be transferred to the safe operation mode after the migration phase (see M .2.256 Planning and maintaining information security in the ongoing outsourcing operation). It is particularly important to ensure that all exceptions that were necessary during the migration phase, such as. extended access rights.



