#M 2.159 Updating the used virus protection programs and signatures
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

For the IT systems equipped with virus protection programs, a regular update of the virus protection program itself (engine) as well as the malware signature must be carried out so that new malicious programs can be detected as quickly and reliably as possible can.

The time intervals between the updates should be kept as short as possible. The frequency of quality-assured signature updates must correspond to the current state of the art. At least the signatures should be updated once a day. If a specific hazard occurs (for example, a corresponding BSI virus alert), an immediate update must be initiated to obtain the most recent signatures and patches.

When updating the virus protection programs and signatures, special care must be taken to ensure that computers that are not assigned to any individual or not networked are also provided with updates.

Virus protection programs must be tested and released before they are used for the first time in active mode (see also M 2.83 Testing of standard software).

A review and testing of signature updates will generally not be possible due to the frequency of such updates. If necessary, the signature updates can be roughly tested for possible incompatibilities on a separate IT system that complies with the standard installation. With regard to the signature updates, the customer therefore relies largely on the quality assurance of the software manufacturer. Functions already integrated into virus protection programs are helpful, which allow a return to an older patch version of the program or older malware signatures.

Even updates to the virus protection program itself (Engine) usually appear so often that a detailed test of each update is not realistic. When installing program updates, however, care must be taken that the existing configuration of the virus protection program is not changed to the detriment. For example, by updating a previously resident virus protection program could be switched to an offline mode.

Updating virus protection programs and malicious program signatures must be integrated with the institution's existing patch and change management. The updates to virus protection programs and malicious program signatures are usually standard changes that do not have to go through the complete patching and modification process (see M 3.66 Basic concepts of patching and   nderungsmanagements).



