#M 2.416 Planning the VPN deployment
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Since setting up a VPN is a complex task, a structured approach is required. Therefore, careful planning should be done prior to the introduction of a VPN in an institution. This step follows immediately on the requirements analysis (see M 2.415 Execution of a VPN requirement analysis) and should build on the insights gained there.

In the following, the most important questions that need to be answered in the context of an organizational concept are shown. Depending on the specific situation, there is naturally an additional need for regulation specially tailored to the respective circumstances.

* The responsibilities for the particular VPN should be defined (installation, administration, verification, monitoring). Depending on the organizational structure, the responsibilities of existing roles must be expanded or new roles created (see also M 2.1 Definition of responsibilities and regulations).


* It must be determined how and by whom the user accounts and the access authorizations are managed and administered (authorization concept). For example, an extranet-attached vendor must have different access rights than a federated branch. It is recommended to define different user groups with different authorizations for the VPN access. The group affiliation of individual users should be governed by a corresponding requirement profile, which determines which prerequisites for membership in a group must be met. Possible prerequisites are the intended use (eg work on the job, fieldwork, maintenance work), proof of specific knowledge (eg participation in training courses) and approval by supervisors. How to regulate the permission for remote access has to be decided within the institution. Often already similar regulations exist, eg. For example, the permission to use Internet access, which can then be adapted. The granted access and access rights must be documented and updated when changes are made.


* For fixed remote locations (such as teleworking stations), requirements must be specified that describe what requirements (eg in terms of safety and technical equipment) the remote workstation has to meet in order to be able to work from there Connections to the institution can be allowed. The concept may provide for an initial as well as a periodic review of the premises and the technique there, and how and by whom. The locations of VPN clients are often not under the control of the LAN operator therefore a special hazard potential. In contrast to stationary clients, further threats are added to mobile clients. Not every place where the technical requirements for VPN connection setup are available is suitable. Therefore, regulations have to be made from which locations VPN connections to the target LAN can be established. Depending on the planned application scenario, it may be better to keep a negative list of particularly unsuitable locations. These can z. B.Hotel foyers, hotel business center or public transport belong.


* If the security of VPN connections is violated, this may result in the compromise of the entire LAN. For the VPN administration, therefore, procedures should be defined which describe how changes to the VPN configuration are to be carried out (example: application, checking of the planned configuration, execution, checking of the performed configuration) heard changes).


* Another important point in the conception is the fundamental question of whether self-realization or own operation of the VPN is necessary or whether external realization or operation is used. Many service providers have a high level of competence and experience in planning, setting up and operating VPNs. However, it is not always advantageous or desirable to give up the complete operation of a VPN. For external operation of a VPN, the requirements of module B 1.11 Outsourcing must be taken into account.
* The protection requirement for the VPN must be determined. This is derived from the protection requirements of the transmitted information and the related IT components. In this context, it is also necessary to determine how unavailability of the system and downtime can be tolerated. Requirements for the VPN security mechanisms (eg authentication and integrity assurance) must be defined. Here it must be questioned whether strong cryptography may be legally used at all participating locations.


* If external suppliers or customers have a connection to the VPN, different security zones must be defined. From the security zones, only the accesses that are actually required for the users may be allowed.


* To prevent misuse, the rights and obligations of VPN users must be specified in the VPN Security Policy. These must be bindingly obliged to comply with the safety regulations.


* Because remote access to a LAN entails particular security risks through the most unsecured environment of a VPN client, each VPN user should receive special training. In the course of this training the users should be sensitized on the one hand for the specific PNP-dangers and on the other hand should be informed about the handling of the technical devices and the software. If authentication tokens are to be used, users must be informed about their proper handling. In addition, the administrators must be thoroughly trained both for the products used and also for VPN security risks and security measures be informed.
* Administrators must not only have sufficient time to operate the VPN, but also to find information about current VPN security vulnerabilities, design information security measures for VPN operation, and the incorporation into new components.


The VPP planning must be submitted to management for decision. All decisions must be documented comprehensibly.



