#M 2.439 Conception and organization of the requirement management
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: requirements manager, authority / company management

Typically, there are surveys in the various areas of an institution about the requirements that are relevant in these areas and their business processes. Not always these are formalized surveys, but often individual information in different structures and knowledge in the minds of experts. Due to the complexity of many business processes and organizational structures as well as an increasing variety of requirements from international cooperation, a large number of different requirements can quickly arise.

Therefore, it makes sense to compile existing knowledge about the various legal, contractual and other requirements and, if necessary, to supplement it. For this purpose, responsible persons must be appointed and their tasks in the area of ??requirements management must be defined. The corresponding role is often referred to as a request manager. Depending on the type and size of the institution, it may be useful to name one or more requirement managers.

Some companies also use the term Compliance Manager, which is then the central requirements manager for the institution. Unless this is prescribed by other regulations, there is no need to create a new position here. The task can be taken over, for example, by security management, auditing, controlling or the legal department.

The designation of a central requirements manager has the advantage that it has an overview of the entire institution, whereby duplicate work and conflicts can be detected and avoided in good time. On the other hand, multiple requirement managers in the different areas of an institution can usually better meet the needs of the target group they serve. In the following, for the sake of better readability, reference is always made in the singular to the role of the requirements manager.

The tasks of a requirements manager (for the areas he is responsible for) include:

* All legal, contractual and other requirements that must be observed for the essential business processes and information as well as for the operation of IT systems and the associated physical infrastructure must be identified and documented (see M 2.340 Compliance with legal requirements) conditions).
* The requirements are to be recorded in a structured manner and brought together from the various areas and consolidated.
* In order to fulfill the individual identified requirements and implement appropriate measures, responsible persons must be designated. The requirement manager should periodically check that the measures taken are adequate to cover the requirements.
* Frequently, requirements must also be interpreted first and translated into the circumstances of the respective institution, since most of the laws and regulations formulate goals and expectations, but not how their implementation should be concretely formulated.
* All types of requirements also go back to a specific target group, which demands or verifies their compliance. When identifying the requirements, the target group should always be documented in order to meet their needs. This saves many adaptation work later. For legal requirements, it is z. For example, it makes sense to record which entity (ie, which regulatory body) is auditing compliance and in which form the information must be prepared for this purpose.


The following table shows some examples:

Table: Assignment of Requirements to Target Groups and Requirements Managers



## Examples 
* Privacy laws
* KWG, KonTraG
* Copyright Act
* Contracts, general business conditions, etc.
* License management




