#M 2.33 Distribution of administration activities under Unix
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In most Unix systems there is only one administration role (the super user named root with the user ID (UID)  0). People with access to this role have full control over the system. In particular, they can read, modify and delete any file, regardless of access rights.

The super-user password may only be known to the administrators. The passing on of the password must be limited to the cases specified in regulations and documented. The super-user-login root can be additionally protected by applying the four-eye-principle, eg. through organizational measures like a shared password. The password must have an increased minimum length (12 or more characters). It must be ensured that the password is checked by the system in full minimum length.

With many Unix systems, a division of tasks is possible by using existing administrator roles. These roles should then be perceived by different people.

A number of administrative activities can also be performed without access to the login root. If there are administrators with such special tasks, it should be used. In particular, if in large systems several persons have to be entrusted with administrative tasks, the risk can be reduced by a corresponding division of tasks. There are two options:

* Creation of administrative logins: Although you have the UID 0, only a program is started at login, with which the administrative task can be carried out and which ends with a logout. Examples: Setting up new users, mounting a drive. For UNIX V.4, for example, For example, the administrative login names setup, sysadm, powerdown, checkfsys, mountfsys and umountfsys can be set up using the programs of the same name.
* Using Logins without UID 0: These login names (sys, bin, adm, uucp, nuucp, daemon, and lp) are the owners of files and programs that are critical to the functionality of the system and therefore subject to special protection. They are specified in most Unix systems for managing the corresponding services.


In order to determine which logins have administrator rights, you should regularly use utilities (eg cops, tigers) that search for logins with the UID 0 in the password file.



