#M 2.61 Regulation of the modem insert
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

It is to be determined:

* who is responsible for the safe operation of the modem (for example, in the stand-alone deployment of IT users, in networked systems the administrator),
* who is allowed to use the modem,
* in which cases confidential information should be encrypted during transmission;
* in which cases data transmissions are to be logged (eg in the case of transmission of personal data). If the communication software offers logging function, it should be used in a meaningful way.


All login events, whether successful or unsuccessful, must be logged. Correctly entered passwords should not be logged, but it is advisable to log the passwords entered during unsuccessful login attempts in order to detect password attacks.

Indications for password attacks can be found eg. be: frequent unsuccessful login attempts for a user, unsuccessful login attempts always from the same port, attempts to log on to different usernames during a connection or from a connection.

After establishing the connection, the caller must be prompted with a login prompt. Care should be taken to ensure that as little information as possible is passed on to the selected IT system before successful registration. There should be neither the type of hardware used nor the operating system. The login prompt should contain the name of the IT system and / or organization, an indication that all connections are logged and a prompt for username and password. In the case of unsuccessful login attempts, no cause may be displayed (wrong username, wrong password).



## Examples 
* Are the conditions governing the use of modems regulated?
* Are the employees aware of the regulations for the use of modems?




