#M 2.223 Security requirements for the use of standard software
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

In most office environments, standard software is used for typical tasks. To do so. B.Text processing programs, spreadsheets, office communication systems, e-mail programs and databases. Since these are often bought completely by a provider, this is also referred to as Office packages. Due to the high prevalence of similar software, security vulnerabilities in these programs can have a major impact, as they can be exploited on many IT systems and malicious programs spread very quickly. A typical example of this are macro viruses (see G 5.43 macro viruses).

Therefore, to avoid or reduce such problems, security guidelines should be established when using standard software.

In order to secure the use of standard software such as office packages, the following points must be observed by IT operations and security management:

* Safety of the environment of use


The security of all Office packages and other standard software depends on the security of the hardware and operating systems used. Most Office application vendors provide recommendations on their websites for secure product configuration and patches to address identified vulnerabilities. These should be used.

In addition, office programs are also offered by cloud computing service providers. These programs run on the client side in the execution environment of the Internet browser used. In addition to the security of the hardware and the operating system, the security of the Internet environment and of the external provider is fundamental to the security of such applications (see also M 2.460 Regulated use of external services).

* Add-ins and macros


These are extensions, some of which come from third-party vendors and are run by Office components when needed, such as: B. to properly process and output hypertext elements. Only those add-ins that originated from trusted publishers and have been tested and approved by IT should be installed. It is important to note that the configuration options in some Office applications are by default not very restrictive, so that add-ins are generally considered trustworthy. The configurations must be adapted accordingly. In addition, all add-ins should be continuously updated from the original pages of the vendors in order to stay technically up-to-date.

Macros allow automation of operations in applications, but they are a constant threat as they can contain malicious code. A typical target of attacks by such macro viruses is z. Infection of the default document template, because it is automatically loaded when you start the appropriate Office application. Therefore users should be advised of the problem and informed about how to prevent macro-malware (see M .2.224 Prevention of malware). This includes in particular that macros should not be executed automatically. ActiveX elements should be disabled as far as possible.



## Examples 
* Using Shared Appointments To facilitate coordination within workgroups, most electronic calendars can be networked together. In addition to many advantages, this also brings with it some problems. So not every employee wants to disclose all his appointments to colleagues. The manufacturers have responded to this by offering them the option of only showing others free or busy times. However, many employees believe that it makes a bad impression when a lot of free time is displayed here and, on the other hand, they are worried that every free minute is filled with deadlines by colleagues. This then leads to large periods of time being blocked on stock. In addition, other problems can also arise, for example. There should therefore be guidelines for the use of networked diaries and the access rights to be observed. These should be coordinated early with the personnel or works council. When introducing networked diaries, all employees should also be instructed in how to handle them properly.
* CD-ROM automatic startup CD-ROMs can be automatically detected and started on all newer Windows operating systems. As a result, malicious programs such as viruses or Trojan horses can get onto the computer. The automatic CD-ROM recognition should therefore be switched off (see M 4.57 Deactivating the automatic CD-ROM recognition).
* OLE (Object Linking And Embedding) OLE functions allow objects to be embedded in files. These are used in many Office products to provide information to other programs. By way of example, a table created in Excel can be embedded in a Word document. However, not only the information shown in the table section, but also all the information contained in the Excel file may be transferred to the Word file under certain circumstances. If the Word file is then redistributed, then the recipient can also view and even modify the Excel file, even if it has been password-protected or read-only-protected. To prevent this, should in this example the table will be copied as text into the Word file. Only if the source Excel file contains no information other than what you want to pass it should be embedded in another file. This can z. B. by creating a new Excel file (see also M 4.64 Verifying the data to be transferred before forwarding / removal of residual information).
* PostScriptPostScript is a page-editing language that describes how information should be displayed exactly on paper or in the corresponding display programs. Since the PostScript command set also has (restricted) instructions in addition to display options to change files, problems can occur similar to macro viruses. PostScript viewer programs are interpreters that process the PostScript language. From Level 2.0 of the PostScript specification, there are also PostScript commands to write files. This makes it possible to create PostScript files that can modify, delete or rename other files while editing by an interpreter, even when displayed on the screen. Many of the available display Programs can be called in such a way that the statements from the PostScript files that are to be opened can not get any information in the file system. For example, with the widely used program ghostscript (gs), the write options to files in the file system can be switched off with the -dSAFER option. In general, it should be ensured that the display programs used are only called so that no unwanted changes in the file system can be made.
* PDF (Portable Document Format) PDF files can also be prepared and contain malicious code that exploits security vulnerabilities. PDF files embed functions such as program calls, which pose a security risk to the files of the local IT system. Often JavaScript is used for such attacks. Especially older versions of PDF applications are prone to such infiltration. Often the users are lured to a manipulated website where a prepared PDF file is loaded in the background. The code hidden in the file installs malware on the user's machine. However, the file does not even have to be opened manually. Anti-virus programs detect infected PDF in many, but not all, cases, as attackers vary the malicious code. It is therefore all the more important to regularly check the applications used for updates and to install security updates quickly. Adobe has included a sandbox (or protected mode) in Adobe Reader version 10 or later (Adobe Reader X) to counteract these attacks. Therefore, users who use Adobe Reader to view and edit PDF documents should use at least version Adobe Reader X and use the protected mode.




