#M 2.160 Regulations for protection against malicious programs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

In order to achieve effective protection against malicious programs, organizational and personnel regulations must be made in addition to the use of technical security measures. The most important aspects that should be taken into account are summarized below:

* All users and administrators must be made aware of the problematic of the malicious programs and trained in target group-specific security measures.
* The tasks, responsibilities and responsibilities for protection against malicious programs must be clearly defined. This applies in particular to the administrators, the users, the IS management team and the central contact persons for the subject of malicious programs.
* Rules must be established for handling software and IT systems.
* It must be regulated how safety incidents and in particular malware infections are reported to the responsible authorities (see M .2.158 Reporting of malware infections).
* In order to be able to detect malware programs during data carrier exchange and data transmission quickly and to minimize the risk of retransmission, it must be stipulated that a check for malware must be carried out during data exchange and data transmission.
* Regulations must be made, as in the case of infection by malicious programs. In particular, it has to be determined which persons and institutions have to be informed in such a case (see M 6.23 Code of Conduct for the occurrence of malicious programs).
* On IT systems that do not have a resident virus protection program installed, a virus protection program must be started regularly (see M 4.3 Using virus protection programs).


All employees must be instructed in the regulations which apply to them in each case.

Compliance with the regulations should be checked regularly and randomly in order to detect deviations and, if necessary, to be able to react to them.



