#M 2.126 Creation of a database security concept
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Data storage in databases over a longer period of time is usually a central and critical aspect of the information management of a public agency or a company. In order to organize a smooth database operation, a database security concept has to be created in due time, which describes security aspects during planning, installation, configuration, operation, migration and deinstallation.

If databases are not adequately protected, the confidentiality, availability or integrity of the stored data may be lost. To prevent this, it is essential to create a final database security concept.

In particular, statements must be made in the concept,

* how the access rights are defined between database administration and application administration
* how the storage of the data and, if necessary, mirroring of the database takes place,
* how the backup takes place,
* which mechanisms are used for the monitoring and control of database activities, and
* how the database capacity should be monitored.


The security of a database is ensured on the software level by the associated database management system (DBMS). For a DBMS to offer effective protection, the following basic conditions must be met.

The DBMS must,

* based on a comprehensive security policy,
* be embedded in the security concept of the organization,
* installed correctly and
* be administered correctly.


Direct access to the database (eg via SQL interpreter such as SQL * Plus) may only be permitted for administrative users in order to manipulate data or database objects (eg tables and indexes ) (see M 2.134 Guidelines for Database Inquiries). Database objects may only be modified in a controlled manner via special user IDs.

Accordingly, the DBMS must have a suitable access and access concept (see M 2.129 Access control of a database and M 2.128 Access control of a database). User identifiers that can only perform data modifications via an application must not have direct access to the database, while database object management identifiers must allow controlled direct access.

The physical storage or mirroring of the database files (eg the DBMS software, the database itself or the log files) and their distribution must be defined in order to B. to increase the availability and reliability. For reasons of availability, mirrored control files should be stored on different hard disks. The failure of a disk does not mean the loss of all control files at the same time. If the database objects of an application are stored in their own data files, then you should take care when distributing the data files that not all applications are affected if one hard drive fails.

Example:

A database manages the data of two applications, each with a data file for the tables and indexes. The data files can be distributed arbitrarily on four hard disks.

An unfavorable distribution of the data files looks like this:

If the first hard drive fails, both applications would be affected and could no longer be used.

A more favorable distribution of the data files, however, is obtained as follows:

If any hard drive fails, only one application would ever be affected.

If disks 1 and 2 on disks 3 and 4 are additionally mirrored and vice versa disks 3 and 4 on disks 1 and 2, up to two disks could fail without the database being completely empty for one of the two applications were to fail.

Furthermore, the following important aspects have to be regulated in a database security concept:

* It is necessary to carry out a regular check of the actual volume of data or of the increase in the volume of data during the later running operation in order to make the required storage space suitable for future needs to be able to dimension.
* Suitable mechanisms for data backup must be used (see M 6.49 Data backup of a database).
* The use of monitoring and control mechanisms should be established; d. H. whether and to what extent database activities should be logged. Among other things, this raises the question of, for example, whether only the time of a data modification is recorded, or whether the modification itself should be logged (see M 2.133 control of the log files of a database system).


Suitable personnel must be available for the design and operation of a database system. The time required for the operation of a database system must not be underestimated. Alone the evaluation of the accrued log data takes experience a lot of time. A database administrator must have in-depth knowledge of the DBMS software used and be trained accordingly.



