#M 2.144 Using SNMP as a network management protocol
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, IT Security Officer

The Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is currently the standard protocol for network management.

The main advantages and disadvantages of SNMP are:

* SNMP is characterized by a simple design and therefore also by a simple implementation. This reduces the error susceptibility and improves the stability of the protocol.
* SNMP is very widespread and is considered a de facto standard. As a result, it is supported by almost every product in the network and system technology environment.
* The protocol can easily be adapted to future needs. For this reason, and the above-mentioned widespread use of SNMP, it can be described as a very future-proof protocol (investment protection).
* It is a connectionless, simple protocol at the transport level. Thus, the performance of the transmission of the SNMP packets in the network is better than with the connection-oriented Common Management Information Protocol (CMP).
* SNMPv3 offers enough good authentication and encryption capabilities to eliminate these shortcomings in the SNMPv1 and SNMPv2 versions.


* The use of SNMPv1 or SNMPv2 poses security risks that may allow an attacker to obtain extensive information about the system and network environment. In particular, apart from the community names (which provide SMP for group creation and rudimentary password protection for SNMPv1 and SNMPv2), there is no real password protection for accessing the network components.
* Due to the simplicity of the protocol and the available options, SNMP has a lot of experience in dealing with very large or strongly expanding networks.
* The performance of version  1 is inexpedient for more complex MIB queries because the entire MIB tree must always be specified.


SNMP is an easy to implement protocol that is used to exchange management information between individual network components (agents) and a central management station (manager). For this purpose, one or possibly several managers and one proIT system each, which is to be configured with SNMP monitoring, are installed in a local network. The agents are installed on the monitored IT systems (for example Routers, Switches, Server etc.). They determine status information from the components on which they are installed and can query or change the configuration. They collect information about these systems and store them in a Management Information Base (MIB).

The management information essentially consists of values ??of status variables that are kept in the management agent and describe the respective status of the associated managed object. Which status variables (name and type) exist in each agent is described in the MIB. In this case, the information is organized hierarchically, and each value is assigned a unique identification number, which defines a unique sequence on the variables.

The message types are in detail:

* GetRequest: sent by the manager to agents to query the value of one or more status variables.
* GetNextRequest: is sent by the manager to agents to query the value or the next values ??according to the order of the variables in the MIB.
* GetBulkRequest: is a special form in which the GetNextRequest command is repeated several times. The number of repetitions can be set with the help of the Max-Repetitions value.
* SetRequest: sent by the manager to agents to set the value of a variable.
* GetResponse: Is sent by the agent to the manager to send the requested values ??or to confirm the setting of a variable value.
* Trap: Used by agents to inform the manager about exception events. Sending a trap message, unlike the GetResponse message, is done without prior request from the manager.
* InformRequest: used by agents or another manager to inform about an exception event. Contrary to the trap, the receipt of the InformRequest must be confirmed by the manager.
* Report: can be requested by setting the reportableflag and informs about the result of a previously sent request.


In practice, however, systems are still used that do not support version 3 and therefore rely on older protocol versions. In this case, the use of an older version must be justified and documented, above all the risks should be disclosed and accepted. At best, these insecure protocols should only be used within a separate, isolated administration network (see M 2.582 ways to set up a management network). However, this should at the very most be a transitional solution, in the long term only devices that support SNMP protocols from version 3 onwards should be used.

In addition, the default community names must be exchanged for other, hard-to-guess names and also changed regularly (see M 4.82 Secure configuration of the active network components). The individual network elements should have different community names. The access permissions associated with community names must be set to the absolute minimum required. Furthermore, access via SNMP to network elements should be restricted with the help of access control lists to the network management stations (see M 4.80 Secure Access Mechanisms for Remote Administration). If older versions of SNMP are not required, they should be disabled.

In the version SNMPv3, the concept of community names has been replaced by a user name. Each user is assigned to a group that has finely adjustable rights for the individual monitored objects. The group affiliation can also be used to set which notifications (traps) a user is allowed to see.

SNMPv3 offers several methods to ensure user authentication: simple user name authentication, authentication via MD5 or SHA. The transmitted information can also be encrypted. The strongest security features should be used.

From a security perspective, therefore, the use of SNMPv1 and SNMPv2 should be avoided and SNMPv3 should be used. The majority of modern IT systems and active network components are masters of SNMP as well as network management software. The greater effort involved in configuring SNMPv3 is offset by the increased security.

In the case that a manufacturer-specific protocol is used, there is usually the possibility to use so-called proxies for integrating SNMP. In this case too, it is necessary to examine in detail whether the proprietary network management protocol is suitable for the intended use and whether it meets the security requirements of the institution for network management.



