#M 2.252 Choosing a suitable outsourcing service provider
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Public authority / management, IT security officer, IT manager

When selecting a suitable outsourcing service provider, the most detailed requirement profile possible and the requirement specification based on it are crucial success factors. Only in this way can a demand-oriented tender be made, to which suitable service providers also apply.

The tender should be the

* Description of the outsourcing project (task description and task sharing) as well as
* Descriptions of the required quality level, which does not necessarily have to correspond to the client's level.


Furthermore, the potential service providers must also be as detailed as possible

* the requirements for information security and
* the criteria for measuring service quality and safety


(see M 2.251 Definition of security requirements for outsourcing projects). In individual cases, it may be necessary to issue the detailed security requirements only against a non-disclosure agreement to service providers, since this can be used to derive indications of existing or planned security mechanisms.

The requirement profile depends heavily on the type of outsourcing project. Important basic evaluation criteria for service providers and their staff can be:



## Examples 
* For foreign service providers, special aspects must be considered. These include, for example: foreign legislation, other liability regulations, the risk of espionage, other security culture, security mechanisms that have been approved and usable in the partner company or by country-specific legislation.




