#M 2.106 Selection of suitable ISDN cards in procurement
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Procurement

When purchasing ISDN cards, it is possible to select them from the outset in such a way that security functionalities do not have to be purchased at high cost in later operation. Necessary safety functions should already be present on the card or implemented using the supplied communication software and driver programs.

Possible criteria for the selection of suitable ISDN cards are:

* Ability to authenticate P to PAP and CHAP (Password Authentication Protocol and Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol, RFC1994),
* Presence of encryption (symmetric / asymmetric) in hardware or software,
* Possibility of evaluating CLIP numbers (Calling Line Identification Presentation) for authentication,
* Possibility of leading a phone number table for making a callback,
* Possibility of logging unsuccessful connection setups (rejection due to wrong telephone number or PAP / CHAP authentication).


In addition, the ISDN cards must be examined for functionality that may not be available for safe operation, or if they are still present, at least through configuration, deactivation can be brought about. To this belongs. For example, the remote control functionality allows direct communication to the IT system from the public network.

The security-relevant requirements for ISDN cards that are relevant for the institution and the operational environment must therefore be determined and communicated to the procurement office.

It should be noted that both in the area of ??IT systems which are to be equipped with ISDN cards and in the area of ??network interconnection elements (eg ISDN routers), ISDN cards with as far as possible identical security functions are used become. If this is not guaranteed, safety functions required on both sides do not have the desired effect.



