#M 2.357 Construction of an administration network for storage systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The management and monitoring of resources such as SAN or NAS components, which are subject to stringent security requirements, must be adequately implemented. Building your own LAN, which serves only administrative tasks, is often the most straightforward, effective, and economical way to meet those requirements. In this administration network, PCs are stationed, which serve exclusively for the management of critical components.

Basically, only secure protocols (SSH instead of Telnet, HTTPS instead of HTTP) should also be used for administration within this network. However, the at least logical, if not physical, separation of this network of production network administration makes the use of insecure protocols, especially of the SNMP version 1, which is still almost inevitable in many production environments, tolerable.



## Examples 
* A very simple structure of such a network can start with the fact that a separate switch is put into operation.
* All clients of the administrators are bound to the administration network with their network connection.
* All servers and systems with increased security requirements (active network components, storage systems) receive an additional network connection and are thus linked to the administration network.
* On the servers, the administration access of the operating and application software is, wherever possible, exclusively linked to the network address in the administration network.




