#M 2.60 Secure administration of a modem
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

The secure use of a modem requires some administrative measures:

* The telephone number of a modem access may only be disclosed to the communication partners in order to protect access before attempting to dial. It may not appear in the telephone directory of the institution. Dial-up tests should be carried out on a regular basis to check if there are any telephone numbers from which external IT systems or fax machines can be dialed for that have been released.
* Only authorized users may be granted access to modems or communication software for data transmission. If a modem is integrated into a network server, users can access the modem from their workstations. In this case, access to the communication software may only be possible for users who are authorized for data transmission (see also M 2.42 Definition of possible communication partners).
* In addition, the settings of the modem and the communication software must be checked regularly, in particular whether the security-relevant settings are still activated and effective. Modem-transmitted data transmissions should be logged.
* It must be ensured that the modem breaks the telephone connection as soon as the user logs out of the system. In a stand-alone system, this can be achieved by connecting the modem to the telephone network only as long as it is used for data transmission, and then disconnecting it from the line or disconnecting it. For a modem integrated in the network server, this must be ensured via the configuration. An external modem can be switched off easily. In addition, all users must be informed that the communication program must also be ended after the data transfer.
* It must also be ensured that external users are automatically logged out of the IT system after the modem connection has failed. Otherwise, the next caller can continue working under this user ID without logging in.


It is necessary to check regularly whether the selected settings are still activated and effective in order to effectively prevent unauthorized use of the modem.



