#M 2.567 Selection of trusted development tools
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: procurer, developer

When hardware or software is developed for systems, a number of tools are usually used. These are often powerful, graphics-based development tools. These are highly integrated and combine requirements management, graphic design and code generation. Furthermore, their database is used as the basis of automated testing. Due to the high degree of automation of the process steps from the idea to the code, the tools or tools potentially have a high degree of autonomy left over. Development tools must therefore be error-free and must not be manipulated unrecognized, as otherwise the hardware and software of the target system are at risk. The development tools may not be abused to install hidden backdoors or vulnerabilities. Development tools of the system manufacturers must be qualified according to the protection requirements of the function to be developed or the information processed with it. To this end, the manufacturer has to submit to the client a tool guideline which contains the essential safety requirements for the tool, the intended tool landscape, purchasing guidelines and the qualification measures. This tool guideline must be checked separately for procured tools by the client.

Compilers Translate codes, converting the code of a high-level language into an intermediate code or machine code. An assembler is also to be considered a compiler, translating a near-hardware language into machine code. Cross-compilers are typically used because the computer architecture of the translating system is not the same as that of the embedded system. The compiler does not run on the target system but on a standard PC, for example, where it generates the code that is loaded onto the target system.

The Java programming language is currently playing an increasingly important role in software development (as of 2015). Java-written programs are initially translated into machine-independent bytecode. This is interpreted by an interpreter on the respective hardware. Modern interpreters are optimized for a high execution speed. In model-based development, properties and behavior of a system are specified by means of modeling languages ??or graphical models. These are then used to generate the code in a high-level language. Debuggers or cross-debuggers are used to detect hardware and software errors, and additional hardware and software can be used for debugging. Some manufacturers offer complete system development packages for their microcontrollers, so-called system design kits. These usually consist of a prototypical hardware with a board, microcontroller, interfaces and peripherals as well as a software development kit, with which software can be created for this microcontroller. The software development kit typically runs on a commercial PC that has a debug interface. B.gem  IEEE standard 1149.1 is connected to the prototype board.



