#M 2.392 Modeling of virtualization servers and virtual IT systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

In order to achieve adequate overall security for IT operations, all virtualization servers and all virtual IT systems must be systematically considered in the security concept. With regard to the IT-Grundschutz approach, this means in particular that all virtual IT systems must be included in structural analysis and modeling.

In the IT-Grundschutz-Approach, modeling refers to the assignment of building blocks to the existing target objects (IT systems, applications, rooms, etc.). In principle, the modeling of virtual IT systems follows the same rules as for standalone physical IT systems. This means that the instructions in chapter  2.2 of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs have to be observed. The allocation of the IT-Grundschutz modules depends primarily on the function of the IT system (server, client, etc.), on the operating system used (Unix, Windows, etc.) and on the applications (database, web server, etc ..).

In order to simplify the maintenance of the security concept and to reduce the complexity, it should be carefully examined to what extent the virtual IT systems can be grouped together. In principle, even those virtual IT systems that are located on different physical computers can be grouped together. However, this must be checked on a case-by-case basis. Information on group formation can be found in the IT-Grundschutz Approach.

If a full-fledged independent stand-alone operating system is used below the virtualization layer, this operating system must be included in the modeling independently of the virtual IT systems. Here too, it must be checked whether a grouping can be made.



## Examples 
* Is there a plan for using virtual IT systems that considers the goals of the mission and the impact on IT risks?
* Is the use of virtual IT systems consistent with the organization's security goals?
* Are the requirements for the virtual IT systems defined with regard to their isolation from each other as well as availability and throughput?
* Is it checked before the transfer of virtual IT systems, whether sufficient response times and processing speeds are achieved?
* Is it determined which applications support virtual IT systems?
* Are the effects on administrative and operational processes on the virtual IT systems examined?
* Are the effects on users and users on the virtual IT systems investigated?
* Are all virtual systems included in the IT security concept?
* Were all virtual machines involved in IT infrastructure analysis, protection needs assessment, and modeling?
* Are the administrators trained in the design, setup and operation of virtual IT systems?
* Are the performance data of the virtual IT systems monitored?




