#M 2.484 Planning OpenLDAP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The use of OpenLDAP in an institution must be carefully planned. The planning of the concrete use of OpenLDAP is always preceded by the M 2.403 planning of the use of directory services. The decisions made in the context of this measure, in particular how OpenLDAP is to be used, result in requirements for OpenLDAP. The concrete planning also depends on the infrastructure used. When planning OpenLDAP, at least the following points should be considered:

* Integration into other applicationsOpenLDAP has numerous options for integration into operating systems and other applications, for example: for user management in Unix and Linux systems via the Pluggable Authentication Module (PAM) and the name Service Switch ( NSS), as a central directory service in heterogeneous networks or together with Active Directory via Samba (see B .5.17 Samba) or as an address book and certificate directory for e-mail programs such as Microsoft Outlook or Mozilla Thunderbird (see B 5.3 Groupware) OpenLDAP must be used in conjunction with other applications, so the planning, configuration and installation of applications and OpenLDAP must be aligned. Within the scope of the IT-Grundschutz systematics, corresponding measures have to be implemented in parallel. The OpenLDAP Frequently Asked Questions (http://www.openldap.org/faq) have information about connecting to other applications in a separate section under Faq-O-Matic | OpenLDAP Software FAQ | Integration ready.
* Reliance on DependenciesTo perform all the functions of a directory service in accordance with the LDAPv3 standard, OpenLDAP relies on using functions of other applications. This applies in particular to the BerkeleyDB used for data storage, for which OpenLDAP has been optimized. Only with this hierarchical database does OpenLDAP have its full functionality. It should be noted that BerkeleyDB and OpenLDAP are two independently developed software applications. OpenLDAP requires a supported version of the BerkeleyDB. An overview of the supported or necessary versions of the BerkeleyDB is given in the Appendix Recommended Versions of the OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide (http://www.openldap.org/doc). The appendix also provides information about additional software packages on which the function of OpenLDAP depends. Their requirements must be observed, especially the installation of a Transport Layer Security variant such as OpenSSL or GnuTLS and the installation of the Simple Authentication and Security Layer Cyrus-SASL. The conceivable alternative GnuSASL is not yet supported by OpenLDAP in version 2.4. Without these two supporting applications, OpenLDAP can not fully implement the LDAPv3 standard. If the authentication is to be secured with Kerberos, an installation of the services Heimdal Kerberos or MIT Kerberos is necessary. The software TCPWrappers listed in the appendix of the Administrators Guide for securing the communication with the directory service should be omitted in favor of another IP filter mechanism (see M 4.238 Use of a local packet filter).
* Selection of the Configuration MethodOpenlDAP supports two different configuration methods since version 2.3. The classic configuration is performed statically in a configuration file (slapd.conf), which the server process reads slapd at startup. The more recent configuration is also referred to as online configuration and stores configuration settings in a special area of ??the directory tree (slapd-config). Online configuration offers several advantages: Changes to the online configuration are made by LDAP operations and are possible via a network connection without access to the file system of the IT system on which OpenLDAP is operated. Administration is easy with online graphical configuration can be changed at server runtime and take effect immediately without requiring a restart of the slapd server process. The configuration can be used as part of the directory be replicated to other servers, facilitating the administration of distributed directory services. For example, changes in access rights will take effect more quickly on all participating servers. On the other hand, not all backends and overlays support online configuration. In addition, the static configuration protects against unpredictable changes to the configuration and limits the effects of security incidents. When planning OpenLDAP, a configuration path should be selected and then maintained throughout. Online configuration is all the more useful, the larger the directory service, the higher its availability requirements, and the more servers involved in a distributed architecture.
* Selection of the backends to be used The list of possible uses of the directory service is followed by which backends are to be provided for the later installation and configuration. Details for the selection of backends include the measure M 2.485 Selection of backends for OpenLDAP.
* Selection of Overlays to Use As well as backends, a list of overlays to use is also to be created. To decide on the use of overlays, the corresponding chapter of the OpenLDAP Administrator's Guide should be worked through. For each overlay, check whether it has an experimental status or is no longer maintained. In both cases, use in a production environment should be avoided. Furthermore, for each overlay, it is necessary to check via the related documentation, such as the man page, whether the online configuration is supported. When choosing overlays, keep in mind that the order in which they are invoked (stacking) can affect their functionality. For example, when one overlay transforms data from another overlay into its original one Form can be expected.
* Implementation of the defined tree structureDuring the planning of the directory service, its structure has been determined, which must now be based on the planning of OpenLDAP: An appropriate name model must be selected, if this has not yet been done in the context of general planning. The classic naming model of the X.500 standard is geared to a mapping of organizational structures and has identifiers such as OrganizationalUnit (OU), Organization (O) and Country (C) (eg OU = bsi, O = bund, C = de ). In contrast, the Internet-style name model is becoming increasingly popular. This naming model uses only DomainComponents (DC) at the upper levels of the tree structure, without naming the individual components differently (eg DC = bsi, DC = bund, DC = de) .Suitable schemas that can be used to name model and gew  should fit structure, be selected. Schemas determine what data can be stored in the database in what form, and what relationships exist between the data. OpenLDAP comes with all the schemas specified inRFCs, others are available on the Internet. As a rule, the existing schemes are sufficient for normal purposes. However, if you need your own schema extensions, these must be carried out with utmost care, since they depend on the functionality of the directory service.OpenLDAP also offers the option of attributes of objects in operation through overlays einzuschrnken. An appropriately configured slapd server will then not perform permissible allocations of objects according to the schemas. Detailed information can be found in the M .4.386 Restrict Attributes section of OpenLDAP. Schemes can also be used independently of the specified tree structure, so that backends and overlays that work properly via LDAP or LDIF format work correctly lay down. For example, the backend back monitor requires the schema core.schema. Such dependencies are to be checked and taken into account by the documentation of the components. To determine the tree structure in OpenLDAP, it must also be decided whether dynamic objects are allowed by the dds (Dynamic Directory Services) overlay. Such objects are automatically removed from the directory service after a specified period of time or when certain events fail. Dynamic overlays can also be created using the dynlist overlay. Dynamic groups are not filled manually, but automatically contain all objects that correspond to a defined search criterion. As a result, for example, without further maintenance groups and lists can be set up, which contain all employees on a floor. Dynamic lists can also be used for access control (see M 4.387 Secure access rights to OpenLDAP). However, caution should be exercised, as the reduced administration effort can lead to unclear access rights.
* User Access Planning Access by anonymous users should be avoided. If anonymous access is still necessary, the directory service should only contain data with low protection requirements. If you want to access a low-protection subset while the directory service also contains data with higher protection requirements, it is recommended that you set up two different slapd server services, one of which allows anonymous access, and only low-sensitive data contains. This can be solved inter alia by replication (see M 4.389 Partitioning and Replication in OpenLDAP). For this purpose, for example, only the name and the extension for a public telephone book are replicated from a directory service with employee data. Planning the user access also entails determining the responsibilities of administrators. For example, different administrators can be responsible for different databases in the directory service (see also M 2.407 Planning the Administration of Directory Services).
* Client Deployment Planning OpenLDAP scheduling must not be restricted to the slapd server, and client selection and support must also be considered. OpenLDAP provides suitable applications in the form of ldap * tools. However, these tools are completely controlled by the command line. They require a lot of training and have little user acceptance. In practice, mostly graphical tools are used or the client is part of an application. If directory services are already controlled by the user via LDAP, client applications are already in use whose capabilities must be taken into account when planning OpenLDAP. It may also be useful to use the slapd server to perform functions that are not provided for by the LDAP specification if the client does not have the necessary functions. Overlays for OpenLDAP provide such functions: The overlay chain (Chaining) enables a server to independently track referrals (these are references to higher-level servers, replicas, etc.), instead of the client's address With the overlay valsort (Value Sorting) the server sends search results to a client already in a sorted order.
* Performance TuningLast planning must also take into account the required performance, which can greatly influence the availability. In particular, frequently searched attributes are to be indexed.




