#M 2.565 Logging of safety-related events in embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In principle, safety-relevant events must be documented in the operation of the embedded system. The technical possibilities for doing so can vary widely with different types of embedded systems and their environment. Possible expressions, functions and parameters are:

* Logging into a non-volatile memory, cumulative by different processes,
* Data recording in simple, formatted text files, eg. B. CSV or XML,
* Recording of process data via dataloggers, in time, event-driven or in case of changes,
* Structured storage of events in a database system,
* Real-time monitoring with user information and the possibility of interaction at runtime,
* Logging all or configurable state and transition changes,
* Variable trace such. B.Audit Trails,
* Statistical evaluation in report form or as graphical representation and
* Correlation, rating.


As far as possible, embedded systems should at least record security policies, such as attempted and completed unauthorized access and access. In particular, the activities of privileged users should be monitored, such as: B.Technicians and administrators. Although this can not prevent the misuse of rights, it is the prerequisite for deliberately closing weaknesses. In addition, logging, at least as far as the risk is concerned, has a deterrent effect on potential killers.

If electronic logging is not or only partially realizable due to conceptual limitations due to the limited resources, organizational regulations should be created. On the one hand, all work on an embedded system should be recorded in a logbook with details of the place, time, performer and nature and reason for the activity. On the other hand, all failures, obvious access and access violations and other incidents should be documented in the logbook. The entries should be evaluated regularly and on an ad hoc basis.

Both automatically generated logs and records by personnel should be protected against unauthorized subsequent changes. Only authorized persons can access the protocols. As far as technically possible, precautions must be taken that the log data can not be deleted or changed by privileged users, eg. B. by storing on non-rewritable data carriers or by electronic signature. Data carriers with log data must be stored securely and the persons involved must be instructed in the correct handling.



