#M 2.585 Conception of an identity and authorization management
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

This measure describes the basic steps that must be taken in the context of identity and entitlement management.

In order to adequately protect the business processes, information and IT systems of an institution, appropriate and appropriate identity and authorization management is required. As a basis for this, the legal, organizational and technical framework conditions in the respective institution must be clarified. Based on this, a general procedure for the general handling of identities and authorizations in the various areas of the institution must be defined.

Again and again there are serious problems because individual users have gained unnecessary privileges or unused user IDs were not deleted, for example, after the departure of employees. To avoid this, it must therefore be the ultimate goal of identity and authorization management to assign to all legitimate users at any time exactly the rights that are necessary for the fulfillment of their respective tasks (principles need-to-know and Least Privileges). For this, clearly regulated procedures and security requirements are required. In a government or business, there are usually a variety of objects and users to manage. It therefore makes sense to regulate identity and authorization management centrally.

Authorization management should include all types and variants of authorizations that are relevant in the institution, ie access, access and access permissions. The structure of the authorizations should be as uniform as possible for all business processes and on all systems, the same roles should also be named with the same names. Likewise, it must be determined in which form and structure information on identities is recorded.

As one of the most important points must be determined who has which tasks and responsibilities in the context of the identity and authorization management. Often the human resources department handles the tasks in the context of identity management and IT operations with authorization management.

There should be an overarching concept for identity and entitlement management for the entire institution, from which (if necessary) appropriate rules for individual areas or systems can be derived. The concept should describe the individual tasks and process steps for the identity and authorization management, which then have to be adapted to the individual areas. These include:

* Providing an overview of groups and types of identities and entitlements that are typically managed in the different areas of an institution,
* Guidelines for managing identities, user IDs and authorizations,
* Handling of user IDs, permissions and authentication means by users,
* Policies for handling identifiers of administrators, emergency users, and other privileged users, as well as restrictions on granting time-limited access to privileges,
* Definition of authorization structures, documentation and approval procedure for granting authorizations,
* Defining and adhering to administration processes,
* Specifications for the creation and restrictive assignment of authorizations on the target systems
* regular check of permissions on whether
* all persons and processes have the necessary permissions, ie neither too much nor too little (Need-to-Know and Least Privileges), all permissions are current, so it z. B. there are no user IDs that are no longer active, but have not been deleted, permissions have been assigned to users directly on the target systems, bypassing identity and authorization management.


In principle, the first thing to be clarified for each area is the need for protection of the information and business processes to be protected, the dangers that are relevant and the security measures already in place. In addition, it must be regulated who may use the information and business processes.



## Examples 
* Who is responsible for managing identities, user IDs, and permissions?
* Who can approve permissions?
* What do the users need to know about the correct handling of user IDs, authorizations and authentication means?




