#M 2.543 Maintaining information security in the ongoing cloud usage operation
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

After successfully completing a migration to a cloud service, the maintenance of information security during ongoing operations must be ensured. For this purpose, a number of measures are to be taken, which are described in more detail below.

The regular updating of documentation and guidelines within the institution must be ensured. This applies, for example, to operating manuals, usage instructions or instructions.

It should also be ensured that regular checks are carried out covering as many areas of cloud usage as possible. At least the following aspects should be considered and included in regular checks:

* Ensuring the proper administration of cloud services. M 3.11 Maintenance and Administration Training describes basic requirements for administrators. It must be ensured that all cloud service administrators are aware of these requirements and are enabled to comply with them. Regular reviews of assigned permissions can also help ensure the proper administration of cloud services. If this was considered necessary and documented in the context of the planning measures, attention must also be paid to compliance with the four-eye principle.
* Regular monitoring of service provision. In this area, the parameters required for the provision of the service should be checked, in addition to those agreed in the contract (SLA) with the cloud service provider (for example, availability, maximum concurrent users, speed of setting up new ones) Users or new resources, just to name a few). There are also other parameters that describe services provided by one's own institution or by third parties, such as the performance of the network connection and connections.
* Regular service reviews between cloud service providers and users. An important aspect of maintaining information security in the ongoing cloud usage operation is the regular performance of service reviews between the commissioned cloud service provider and the institution. The agreed and actually achieved service levels should be compared. The treatment of exceptional situations, such as a major attack or a global network outage, should also be included in the reviews. The requirement for regular service reviews involving the client and the contractor can not be implemented in practice for every cloud service. The service review can therefore be carried out initially by the client alone. Only in the case of identified problems or high protection requirements should a corresponding coordination with the cloud service provider take place.
* Ensuring the interoperability of cloud services. In order to be able to ensure interoperability when using several cloud services, it is recommended to carry out interoperability tests.
* Provision of security credentials by the cloud service provider. The institution should regularly request the documentation available from the cloud service provider for inspection. Similarly, the cloud service provider should be able to provide evidence of the certification of internal control systems for its processes and services, as contractually agreed.
* The proper implementation of backups.
* Ensuring compliance with proposed and agreed processes.
* The control of technical measures to prevent the use of unauthorized services, for example by using proxies.
* The performance of audits, security checks, penetration tests or vulnerability analyzes.


In addition to the measures already described, conducting regular rounds of coordination between the cloud service provider and the using institution offers further options for ensuring information security in the ongoing cloud usage operation. In this context, voting on various topics may be of interest. For example, up-to-the-minute information on change management can be found as well as changes in the staffing situation on the part of the cloud service provider. A discussion about customer satisfaction and potential for improvement could also be the content of such a round of voting.

The planning and execution of exercises and tests makes an important contribution to maintaining information security. With a focus on communication between the institution and the cloud service provider, it is primarily the response to system failures (partial failure and total failure) that must be planned and checked. Furthermore, plans have to be made and documented regarding the re-importing of data backups. In general, security incident management guidelines for cloud use must be specified.



