#M 2.512 Regulation of the linking and use of data in the processing of personal data
Responsible for Initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Data protection officer, specialist responsible

In typical IT applications, the user is guided on the screen by the computer by means of masks through a menu. These facilitate the use of the program by means of pre-formulated questionnaires in which it can query its queries. can tick. They only permit queries and evaluations that have been specified by the application program, that have been checked and approved under data protection aspects. Other queries are rejected. This is different for database languages ??(free query languages) and modern office software: they allow the user to formulate queries about the database itself without being bound by the restrictions of a strict menu. This could also make evaluations that are not required and therefore not allowed.

Since technical development now offers the possibility of reducing the data protection risks associated with a free query language, the restricted use of free query languages ??may be justified in justified individual cases. An impairment of the personal rights of those affected must be excluded. The approval of the personnel or works council must also be obtained. The possibility of using free query languages ??or the functionality of Office software is to be limited as far as possible. Data evaluations, which are foreseeably required regularly to fulfill the task, are to be provided via menu control or screen masks. The use of free query languages ??should be limited to exceptional cases.

Before allowing the so-called free query languages ??in the context of personal data processing, it is necessary to assess whether this is compatible with the data protection. If it is fundamentally compatible, the following requirements should be met: The system must have a technical limitation, similar to a filter that ensures that the free query language can only be used to the extent agreed. The scope may, for example, be determined by an access restriction to certain, less sensitive data fields. Bypassing of the filter is to be prevented in particular by programming.

The data to be accessed with such a query language and the types of query to be opened must be checked in advance. Criteria are in particular here

* the need for task fulfillment,
* proof that an anonymous evaluation does not suffice for the purpose
* the sensitivity of each data in the intended link and system environment as well
* the particular purpose and context of data usage.


No data protection concerns exist against the use of a free query language if the evaluation only leads to anonymised results, ie. It is not possible to draw conclusions about individuals.



