#M 2.161 Development of a crypto concept
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Businesses and authorities are now increasingly dependent on their information technology infrastructure. For this reason, security services are required and integrated into an overall system that goes beyond mere encryption.

Due to the variety of cryptographic problems and different influencing factors, there are also numerous solution approaches and implementation options. One can not assume that there is a solution that can eliminate all security problems in computer networks and / or communication systems. Rather, it depends on a coordinated interaction of appropriately selected components in order to achieve the required degree of security. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a crypto-concept that is integrated into the security concept of the agency or the company.

The selection of suitable cryptographic components must be based on this concept. Key management is a critical element in the entire crypto concept. Concepts and solutions can only be successfully developed and implemented if it becomes clear which special security functions or security services are required. In addition, there are a number of systemically important issues and aspects that are not specific to the field of safety engineering. This includes z. B. Performance requirements, system connection or interoperability and standard compliance requirements.



In networked IT infrastructures, it is no longer enough to ensure the security of a single domain. Rather, the security of all participating terminal equipment and transmission systems must be coordinated. This coordination is particularly difficult in cases where these are not only networked devices within an organizational unit (eg LAN environment), but rather a combination of IT installations of different competencies and application areas.

The use - but also the functionality and technological design - of an IT security system is determined by numerous influencing factors, such as, for example. Localization, security level, frequency and scope of application, which are important frame and decision conditions for security management. Furthermore, the technical possibilities for the realization and design of a security system are manifold, eg. integrated in an application on the workstation, in a firewall or as a special component for network components such as switches or routers. An affordable price level for a crypto product can only be achieved through its cross-sectional usability. Here play z. B. a standardized system connection, uniform operating conditions, etc., play an important role. One last point concerns the interaction of security services on different protocol layers. As a rule, the security services of the higher protocol layers (according to the OSI reference model) only provide sufficient protection if the lower layers also provide protection (see M 4.90 Using cryptographic methods on the various layers of the ISO / OSI reference model ).

Furthermore, the definition of an organization's own crypto policy is important. It must be clarified from the point of view of management,

* which protection requirement exists or which security level is to be achieved,
* which budget and how much staff are available to set up the planned security mechanisms and - most importantly - to ensure the operation,
* which system connection is desired or which conditions of use prevail for safety components,
* which functional and performance scope is to be targeted and
* who ultimately takes the responsibility.


The crypto concept also describes the technical or organizational use of the cryptographic products, ie z.

* who gets which access rights,
* which services are offered remotely,
* how to manage passwords and keys with regard to validity, use of characters, length, assignment,
* whether, when and how the data must be encrypted or signed,
* who is allowed to communicate with whom cryptographically secured or unsecured,
* who is allowed to assign certain rights, etc.


Depending on the technical system conditions

* the data volume to be considered and the time dependence,
* availability requirements and vulnerability,
* Type and frequency of the applications to be protected etc.


On this basis suitable implementation possibilities can be analyzed and for specific areas of application such as eg. a PC workstation, in the LAN area or in connection with a telecommunications system designed and technically designed. It is only on the basis of such a holistic approach that it is possible to compile decision bases and conditions for cryptographic products whose use or use is both safety-relevant and economically justifiable. However, it should be noted that the classification made is by no means mandatory or of fundamental importance, but at best helpful. The only important thing is that the scope of the question consistently reflects the idea of ??the most comprehensive possible clarification of the initial situation. Of course, in practice there are interactions and dependencies between some questions or answers, which in general, however, contribute to the completion of the overall picture.

The various factors influencing the use of cryptographic methods are to be determined and documented comprehensibly (see M 2.163 Survey of influencing factors for cryptographic methods and products). Subsequently, a suitable procedure for their use must be developed and documented. At the end, the implementation must be ordered by the authorities or the company management.

The results should be updatable and extensible in the crypto-concept. A possible structure of a crypto concept is shown by way of example in the following table of contents:



## Examples 
* DefinitionsCryptographic methods ...
* Dangerous situation for motivationDependence of the institution on the data stockTypical dangers such as ... Institutional damage causesDamaged damage in-house
* Determination of an organization-internal security policySetting of responsibilitiesGoal setting, security level
* Influencing factorsIdentification of the data to be protectedFrequency requirements of the dataIntegrity requirement of the dataRequest requirements for the dataSpecifications to the performance key distributionData volumeType of the data (local / distributed (LAN / WAN)) Type of applications for which cryptographic methods are to be usedHowever, the frequency of the data Use of the cryptographic processResistance requirements of the algorithms or procedures (tamper resistance) Recoverability of the secured dataStaff costsRequired functionality costs including follow-up costs (maintenance, administration, updates, ...) Knowledge / data processing-specific qualifications of IT users
* Determination of the useType of cryptographic proceduresCreation conditions for the cryptographic productsHow to name and date of assignmentEstablishment of the persons responsibleSetting of the organizational regulationsDer execution of the personnel measures (training, substitution regulations, obligations, role assignment) Documentation of the conditions of use / configuration interoperability, standard conformity, investment protection
* key management




