#M 2.538 Planning the secure integration of cloud services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

If an institution decides to use cloud services, then extensive planning measures must be carried out in order to ensure their secure operation. In particular, the planning of safe migration and the planning of secure integration into the existing IT landscape should be mentioned.

In M 2.537 Planning for secure migration to a cloud service, for example, there are indications of the gradual introduction of cloud services and the general need to integrate cloud services closely into your own institution. In addition, the actual planning of the secure integration of cloud services into one's own institution requires consideration of other aspects that go beyond the first considerations of migration planning.

Based on the identified requirements for cloud usage (see M 2.534 Creation of a Cloud Usage Strategy), necessary adjustments must be considered and planned at least in the following areas of the institution. The results of the test are to be documented and adjusted accordingly in case of changing requirements. If there is a need for action from the results determined, this must also be documented and considered as the basis for the implementation of further measures in the context of implementation or for the conduct of cost-benefit analyzes.



## Examples 
* Is there a need to deploy new interface systems?
* Is the interoperability of all required interface systems with the considered cloud service given?
* Can the existing interface systems at all levels deal with the services to be used? For example, can the existing proxy properly inspect application traffic?
* Which performance or which data throughput must be provided by suitable interface systems?
* Do interface systems have to be designed redundantly and if so, how is this implemented?




