#M 2.241 Execution of a requirement analysis for the teleworking station
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Before a teleworkstation is set up, it makes sense to carry out a requirement analysis. The purpose of this requirement analysis is to determine all possible application scenarios in order to derive the required hardware and software components for connecting the home office. As a result, special requirements can be identified that require the use of specific systems and / or software (see, for example, block B 4.4 VPN or block B 4.5 LAN connection of an IT system via ISDN).

The results of such a requirement analysis must be documented and agreed with the IT managers.

Within the scope of this requirement analysis u. a. to answer the following questions:

* Up to what level of confidentiality can data be processed in the context of telework at the teleworking station, ie outside the protective walls of the agency or the company?
* For what purpose is access to the institution used (querying information, setting information, using programs)?
* How high is the traffic between the home office and the institution?
* Does the teleworker need access to the institution's intranet? If so, access to the entire intranet, i. H. to all available data and services or only to parts of the intranet?
* Is the use of the Internet intended for employees? If so, does the teleworker have their own Internet access or is this access realized via the intranet of the institution?


Depending on the confidentiality of the data, it may be necessary to define certain transmission paths from the organization to the teleworkstation. It may be useful to exclude certain transmission paths or to set minimum requirements for them. For example, it might be compulsory to transport paper documents containing confidential information only in a direct way from the organization to the teleworkstation in sealed transport containers. Likewise, for different degrees of confidentiality, different encryption methods could be provided for data transmission.

Similar considerations should be made when the information to be processed by teleworking needs to be particularly protected against manipulation.



