#M 2.44 Secure packaging of the data carriers
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: user, post office

In addition to the implementation notes outlined in Measure M 2.3 Data Carrier Management, the shipping packaging of data media should be such that any manipulation of the data media can be detected by changes to the packaging.

Possible measures are the use of

* Wrapping with seal,
* sealed cases,
* Envelopes, which are glued with adhesive film und and then repeatedly transferred irregularly with non-water-soluble ink,
* Security labels that seal the envelopes.


For the secret protection area there are special, suitably tested security letterheads, seal tapes and security labels.

If digital data carriers have a write protection (eg slider for floppy disks, write ring for tapes), this should be used. Depending on the protection requirements of the data stored on the data carriers, it should be checked which of the following security mechanisms are appropriate:

* The files should be saved as protected as possible on the data media. For example, the access protection available in many Office programs can be used (see also M 4.30 Using the security functions offered in application programs).
* If tampering with the information on the data carrier itself is to be detected, encryption or checksum procedures must be used (see M 4.34 Using Encryption, Checksum or Digital Signatures).
* To prevent unauthorized reading, the entire data carrier or the individual files should be encrypted.




