#M 2.347 Regular security checks for SAP systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, auditor

The security of an SAP system can only be guaranteed in the long term if it is checked regularly. In this way, misconfigurations and vulnerabilities can be detected and resolved.

Safety checks should be carried out at regular intervals by different persons. For example, administrators should conduct short checks at relatively short intervals (approximately monthly). It is advisable to set up a test list so that a defined scope of testing is guaranteed. Detected minor problems can usually be corrected immediately by the administrators, larger problems are reported according to the process requirements. At medium time intervals (several months), security checks should be carried out through other, internal roles (eg information security, IT audit). At longer intervals, examinations by external examiners can be useful. The following aspects should be taken into account in tests:



## Examples 
* Users with incorrect logonsThis may indicate attempts to attack.
* Users with credentials and password changesTo identify users who are never logged in or have not changed their password unless automatically enforced.
* Users with critical combinations of permissions for the transaction start should be matched with the authorization concept.
* Users with critical authorizationsA synchronization with the authorization concept should take place.
* Change documents for users, role assignments, roles, profiles and authorizationsIn this case, changes to administrative objects must be checked in particular.




