#M 2.480 Use the Exchange and Outlook documentation
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Developer, Administrator

Microsoft provides a variety of free information centrally through the Microsoft TechNet Service (http://technet.microsoft.com). Here are documentation, online help, manuals, etc. available to Microsoft products.

The Microsoft TechNet also points to other sources of information. Here are some examples:

* Notes or additional software are offered through Microsoft TechNet. Above all, the security-relevant information that can be found behind the menu entries for security should be noted. Also important are the Microsoft Product Security Guides offered through the Download Center. In the present context, the security guides for messaging and collaboration are particularly relevant.
* The Microsoft Developer Network (http://msdn.microsoft.com) is intended as a source of information for developers. Here is a free registration necessary.


For the products of the Exchange Server family, the current online documentation is version specific to Microsoft TechNet. The Exchange Server TechCenter provides all the necessary information. The same applies to the documentation for Microsoft Outlook, which can be found in the Office TechCenter.

For the security-relevant documents and instructions, please refer to the Security Compliance Management Toolkit, which offers the latest security guides, instructions for safe installation and monitoring as well as further documents and help.

For Microsoft Exchange / Outlook 2010, this means exemplary:

* For the Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 release, you will find relevant documentation, downloads and instructions in the Exchange TechCenter (keyword Microsoft Exchange Server).
* In particular, the Exchange 2010 Security Guide (not yet published) is important for the safe installation and operation of an Exchange installation. This guide is written for IT administrators responsible for securing the Exchange 2010 deployment. It is designed to assist the IT administrator in understanding and managing the entire security environment in which Exchange is installed.
* The latest version of the Exchange Server 2010 documentation is available on the Exchange Server 2010 Home Page.
* For the Microsoft Outlook 2010 release, you can find relevant documentation, downloads, and guides in the Outlook 2010 Resource Kit (Office 2010 Beta Resource Kit). Information security aspects are covered in Security and protection for Office 2010 Beta.




