#M 2.442 Use of client operating systems from Windows Vista on mobile systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

The use of a mobile computer is associated with typical dangers arising from mobile use. When using Windows as of Windows Vista on mobile computers, as for all mobile computers, the module B 3.203 Laptop is to be observed. For data encryption, data protection and locally installed firewalls, clients as of Windows Vista have their own mechanisms available. These are followed by recommendations.

Windows Phone 8 is an operating system for smartphones. It is based on the kernel of Windows 8 and thus also includes security mechanisms of Windows 8 (for example Secure Boot, BitLocker). The measures described below are damitz. T. Also applicable for devices with Windows Phone 8.



## Examples 
* EFS (Encrypting File System) can be used to encrypt individual files and / or directories (see M 4.147 Secure use of EFS in Windows).
* Encryption of offline files. Offline files are basically copies of documents that are on a network share. They are stored on the local computer in a database, so that access to the documents is maintained even if the share is not accessible on the network. The ability to encrypt these offline files was introduced in Windows XP. The entire offline files store, which contains files for all users, is encrypted using a computer-specific key. Encryption is transparent to the user and can only be enabled and disabled by administrators.




