#M 2.475 Contract design when ordering an external IT security officer
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: administration / company management

If an external IT security officer is appointed, the following instructions must be observed.

In some cases, especially in small companies or public authorities, it may be advisable not to fill the role of the IT security officer with an own employee, but to use the services of an external IT security officer. For this, a suitable, qualified expert for information security must first be selected. Information about the necessary qualifications, the function and the tasks of an IT security officer can be found in BSI Standard 100-2 and in the M 2.193 measure Structure of a suitable organizational structure for information security.

Before appointing an external IT security officer, a contract must be concluded between the service provider and his own institution, in which the tasks of the external IT security officer and the mutual rights and obligations must be regulated as precisely as possible , The assignment of an external IT security officer is thus a special form of outsourcing.

The following aspects should at least be regulated in the contract:

* Requirements for the qualification of the external IT security officer
* Representation rules and minimum resources
* Tasks that the external IT security officer must undertake
* Reporting, reporting and escalation routes, contact persons (roles)
* Integration in communication channels of the commissioning institution
* Workplaces, premises and attendance / availability times
* Access, access and access rights
* Lecture rights and reporting obligations towards the management level of the commissioning institution
* Obligation to cooperate of the client
* confidentiality agreement
* conflicts of interest
* Consequences of contracting
* Regulations for the termination of the contractual relationship, eg. B. Submission of tasks and documents
* costs


The contract requires the external IT security officer to be required and able to perform his duties at least as well as an internal IT security officer.

If the service of an external IT security officer is used, block B 1.11 Outsourcing must also be used. In particular, the measure M 2.226 regulations for the use of external personnel must be observed.



