#M 2.473 Selection of TK service providers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: TK-Anlagenverantwortlicher, Administrator, Head of IT

It is almost always necessary for users to be able to make phone calls with other people whose TK terminals are not connected to their own PBX system. Examples of this are

In order to be able to make telephone calls to persons who are not connected to the institution's own PBX (for example, terminals in other locations of the institution, mobile phones and external call partners), the PBX must be connected via a subscriber line (TAL, also last mile) to the PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Network). For this a TK service provider (service provider) must be assigned.

The TC service provider provides the physical connection between the institution's PBX and the PSTN, and also regulates the connection to the PSTN. An exception to this are IP system connections, in which only Internet connections are used and the connection to the PSTN is completely at the TK service provider. Since the external TC connections are transmitted via the TC service provider, it is important to select the provider, the services provided, and the number of concurrent connections.

The following requirements can be taken into account for the selection:

* Connection type Should the PBX be connected to the PSTN with one or more ISDN basic connections or S2m primary multiplex connections? Is an IP system connection possible?
* Location networkingHow will the PBXs of different locations be connected?
* Reference installations or customers Does the TC service provider have experience with institutions whose requirements correspond to their own requirements?
* Size and quality of the service team How fast can the technicians be on site? What reaction time does the provider guarantee?
* Hardware Is additional hardware required by the customer? Can this be bought or rented? Which outsourcing and service contracts are there?
* Capacity Can the provider demonstrably provide the required number of outgoing lines?
* Redundant Lines Can the PBX be redundantly connected to the PSTN over a number of physically independent lines and routes for high protection requirements in terms of availability?


In addition to the safety aspects, contractual and financial aspects should also be taken into account:

* Contractual commitment to the providerHow long is the customer bound to the provider? How long are the notice periods? Can I easily switch to another provider at a later date?
* Flexibility and Willingness Did TK service providers regularly introduce new products, service ideas and tariffs in the past? Is it possible for the customer to introduce individual products or services one after the other?
* Tariff models Are there tariff models that match the usage behavior of the institution, such as fixed prices (flat rate) or staggered prices? Are there any special tariff options for favorable international calls when you often need to make calls to foreign partners abroad? With what timing are the calls billed (seconds or minutes)?


All agreed services must be recorded accurately and clearly in writing.



