#M 2.299 Create a security policy for a security gateway
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Because the security gateway plays a central role in the security of the network, secure and correct operation is particularly important. This can only be ensured if the procedure is integrated into the existing safety specifications.

The central security requirements (the level of security to be achieved) result from the organization-wide security guideline and should be formulated in a specific security guideline for the operation of the security gateway in order to concretize and implement the higher-level and generally formulated security guideline in the given context.

In this context, it is necessary to examine whether, in addition to the organization-wide security guideline, further superordinate specifications such as IT guidelines, password guidelines or Internet usage requirements must be taken into account.

The security policy must be known to all persons and groups involved in the procurement and operation of the security gateway and be the basis for their work. As with all directives, their content and implementation must be regularly reviewed by a higher-level audit.

The security policy should first specify the level of security to be achieved in general and make basic statements about the operation of the security gateway. Here are a few points that should be considered:

* General configuration strategy: Since the security gateway plays a central role in protecting the network, it must be configured with the least degree of security (or the individual components).
* Regulations for the work of administrators and auditors: Which access channels should administrators and auditors access to the systems (for example, only locally at the console, via a separate administration network or via encrypted connections)? will have to be documented? In what form is the documentation created and maintained? Does a change of perspective apply to certain changes? For particularly safety-critical changes to the settings of the security gateway, this is strongly recommended. According to which scheme are administration rights granted?
* Specifications for purchasing devices based on a requirement profile
* Guidelines for installing and configuring individual components of the security gatewayAccuring the initial installation Checking the default settings for security threatsControls for physical access controlUse and configuration of console and other types of accessControl for user and role administration, authorization structures (procedure and methods of authentication and authorization, authorization for installation, update, configuration changes, etc.). As far as possible, a role concept for the administration should be developed. Rules for the preparation and maintenance of documentation, form of documentation: procedural instructions, operating manuals
* Requirements for safe operationBackup of the administration (for example: access only via secure connections) Use of encryption (standards, keys, areas of application) Requirements for password usage (password rules, areas to be protected by passwords) , Rules and situations for password changes, where applicable, passwords) Tools for operation and maintenance, integration into existing network management Authorizations and procedures for software updates and configuration changes
* LoggingWhat events are logged? Where are the log files stored? How and at what intervals are the logs evaluated?
* Data backup and recovery integration into the organization-wide data protection concept
* Fault and error handling, incident handling Regulations for the reaction to operational faults and technical faults (local support, remote maintenance) Regulations for safety incidents
* Emergency preparedness integration into the organization-wide emergency preparedness concept
* Audit and audit (responsibilities, procedures, integration into a comprehensive audit concept)


The responsibility for the safety guideline lies with the safety management,   changes and deviations from it may take place only in agreement with the safety management.

When creating a security policy, it is advisable to proceed in such a way that first of all a maximum of requirements and specifications for the security of the systems is established. These can then be adapted to the actual circumstances. Ideally, this is achieved so that all necessary aspects are taken into account. For each deficient or deficient specification in the second step, the reason for non-consideration should be documented.



