#M 2.302 Security gateways and high availability
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A security gateway should always be the only interface between the external and the protected network. Thus, the security gateway naturally represents both a potential bottleneck and a potential break point for the entire network traffic of an organization. Thus, the availability of security gateways is often subject to high demands.

The most important components of a security gateway should therefore be redundant. These are, above all, those components that must necessarily be crossed to retrieve or send information. This category usually includes packet filters, application level gateway and possibly VPN components. For other components (eg virus scanner or intrusion detection system), the significance for the security of the network to be protected must be considered on a case-by-case basis.

There are several ways to increase the availability of security gateway components:



## Examples 
* Even after an automatic fail-over, the security gateway must meet the security requirements of the security policy or directive (fail-safe or fail-secure).
* The HA implementation must not hinder the operation of the security gateway or its security functions.
* At least the packet filter and the application-level gateway should be designed to be highly available, as communication is generally no longer possible if the components fail. The same applies to VPN components.
* There should be two independent access to the external network, eg. B. two Internet Ent nge of different providers.
* Internal and external routers must be designed redundantly, eg. Using protocols such as Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP) or proprietary Hot Standby Routing Protocol (HSRP).
* Function monitoring should be based on a variety of parameters and should not rely on a single criterion (such as a simple reachability test by testing the availability of the network interface (ping)). If a component can be reached by means of ping, for example, it could be checked whether the configured services work in the intended manner.
* Incorrect configurations during commissioning or malfunctions of a component in active operation may not be immediately visible in HA solutions, as functions are partly taken over by the parallel installed component. So z. For example, it may not immediately pop up if filtering on active content is turned off on an ALG and the requests are handled by the correctly configured system. That's why it's important to keep a regular check on the log files and the HA solution alerts.




