#M 2.412 Protection of authentication when using Active Directory
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Active Directory acts as a central component within the network. In order to ensure trustworthy communication between the affected subscribers within the network, security and reliability in terms of authentication and authorization when accessing network resources is required.

To maximize the protection of Active Directory authentication, deactivate LAN Manager authentication and disable the server message block (SMB) traffic between domain controllers and between domain servers. Controllers and computers of Dom ne be signed. Furthermore, the pr -Windows 2000-compatible access should be disabled, as well as restrict the anonymous access to the Dom nen controller.

A high degree of security can only be achieved if all domain controllers, member servers and workstations support the NTLMv2 (NT LAN Manager Version 2) authentication protocol. NTLMv2 is available as standard from Windows NT 4.0 SP4 (see also M 5.123 Securing network communication under Windows). Older authentication protocols from earlier versions of Windows provide less security. For example, in the LAN Manager Authentication Protocol (LM), the account passwords are stored in an insecure LM hash format. The passwords for the Windows NT authentication protocol NT LAN Manager (NTLM) and NT LAN Manager Version 2 (NTLMv2) are stored in NTLM hash format. The NTLM hash is cryptographically stronger than the LM hash format.

The SMB protocol forms the basis for Microsoft file and print sharing and for many other network operations, such as. the remote administration of Windows. For example, to prevent man-in-the-middle attacks (see G 5.143 Man-in-the-Middle Attack), where SMB packets are modified during the broadcast, the SMB supports it -Protocol the digital signature of SMB packets.

Some operating systems and applications developed for Windows operating systems prior to Windows 2000 require anonymous access to other servers and domain controllers, for example. Under Windows NT 4.0, the spooler service requires anonymous access to remote printers. Also, anonymous access is required to establish trust relationships between a Windows NT 4.0 domain and a Windows 2000 domain. For the greatest possible security, anonymous access to domain controllers and anonymous access to Active Directory data should be strictly prevented.

These steps can be used when using earlier Windows client and server operating systems, such as Windows. Windows 95, Windows 98, Windows Millennium Edition and Windows NT 4.0, lead to disruptions in the operation of the network, as they do not support the abovementioned protective measures, or only to a limited extent. Therefore, for reasons of availability, it is not always possible to disable insecure LAN Manager authentication, to sign SMB traffic, and to prevent anonymous access to domain controllers. In such cases, the corresponding requirements of services and programs that require anonymous access for their functions should be weighed against the security benefits. The decisions taken must be documented, including remaining residual risks, and signed by the IT manager.

If the server environment includes several Windows operating systems, the security recommendations described in M 4.314 Secure Policy Settings for Domains and Domain Controllers must be adjusted to be compatible with earlier versions of Windows are.



