#M 2.428 Scalability in patch and change management
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Change Manager

Obtaining a patch and change management tool often has different requirements than a later operation. The IT landscape is growing along with additional IT systems that need to be aware of patch and change management. Therefore, it is important that the patch and change management tool be scalable. The scalability required to introduce the system must already be determined during the planning phase.

The main factors influencing scalability are the required implementation speed for distributing the hardware or software changes in relation to the existing IT infrastructure and the necessity to massively restore the IT systems in parallel in the event of a fault.

In the event that faulty hardware or software changes are distributed, defined breakpoints must be defined for the distribution. Since this possibility depends strongly on the speed of implementation, it has to be determined where, how and at what time a deliberate interruption of the distribution is possible.

In order to determine whether an expected implementation speed exists, operating values ??of the IT infrastructure, such as network bandwidths and system utilization, can initially serve. However, the rate of implementation must be carefully checked in practice before testing the system. Potential bottlenecks in the IT infrastructure must be quickly addressed by expanding or modifying the configuration.

In addition to the determined values, a presumable growth of the IT infrastructure in the immediate time after commissioning should be added in order not to immediately move on to another scaling and rebuilding phase of the system. First, further empirical values ??from the operation should be collected, which then have to be used as additional stopping points for the further expansion of the system.

In practice, the approach has been to implement scalability according to the physical and geographic IT structure of the institution. If the institution's patch strategy allows it, z. In each branch of the institution, distribution systems are used, each receiving and processing the software changes only for the IT systems of each site.

On the other hand, if the institution's patch strategy is strongly centered or if the patch and change management tools are outsourced, it is advisable to choose the scaling so that dedicated systems are operated per branch.

When software tools are used to support patch and change management, care should be taken to meet scalability requirements.



