#M 2.435 Selection of suitable shredders
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: Procurement, IT Security Officer

Document shredders can be used to cut paper documents as well as chip cards and CDs in such a way that the original information can no longer easily be read out of the fragments. Whether and with what effort the information can be reconstructed depends on the value of the used device. The standard DIN 66399: 2012 Destruction of data carriers defines three protection classes and seven security levels. The basis for the assignment to a protection class is the protection requirement of the data. For each protection class, the standard specifies the associated safety levels and thus the size of the particles produced by the shredders. In the lower security levels there are document shredders that cut the material into strips (strip cut). In the higher security levels, those that generate particles by another cutting technique (eg cross-cut). With strip cut, however, there is a high probability that the documents can be put together again. Especially with a low mixing, so only a few shredded documents, even very narrow-cut documents of security level  P-3 can reconstruct again with little effort. To dispose of documents with sensitive information, shredders with particle cutting (eg cross-section from security level P-4) should therefore be used.

Requirements for such devices are described in the standard DIN 66399: 2012 Part 2 Requirements for destruction of data carriers. Security levels are assigned to the various types of data carriers, which set different requirements for the size of the destroyed material. In DIN 66399, security levels are indicated by a material identifier and the level number, such as paper, security level 3 (P-3). A shredder for paper is not necessarily sufficient for the destruction of smart cards or similar data carriers. For the values ??given below for particle sizes, DIN 66399 Part 2 requires 90% compliance, and 10% of the particles in a sample may be larger.

* Security level 3: For files (P-3) the particle size must not exceed 320 square millimeters. For strip cuts, the strip width must not exceed 2  millimeters. Microfilm (F-3) requires 10 square millimeters and chip cards (E-3) 160 square millimeters. The reproduction of the information is only possible with considerable effort (people, aids, time).
* Security level 4: The particle size must not exceed 160 square millimeters for files (P-4), 2.5 square millimeters for microfilms (F-4). For chip cards (E-4), the particle size must not exceed 30 square millimeters, the chip must be divided at least once. The reproduction of the information is only possible with exceptionally high effort.
* Security level 5: The particle size (P-5) must not exceed 30 square millimeters, for microfilms (F-5) 1 square millimeter. For chip cards (E-5), the particle size must not exceed 10 square millimeters, the chip must be split several times. The reproduction of the information is only possible using commercial facilities or special constructions.


For the destruction of data carriers with normal protection requirements, destruction devices of security level 3 (with the abovementioned restrictions) or higher should be used. For higher protection requirements, devices with security levels 4, 5 or higher should be used.

When choosing the appropriate level of security, users should consider the following to achieve cost and security optimization:

* The smaller the particle size, the greater the certainty of destruction. In the case of documents, it is decisive, in particular, whether individual particles already contain valuable information, or whether the valuable information is only available by assembling several particles. There may be situations in which individual  bergro e particles, which are quite permissible according to the tolerance range of the standard, can already contain valuable information and the protection goal with a selected security level may not be reached Ma  can be increased security when shredders have a high throughput and therefore already takes place during the destruction process, a strong mixing of the particles. Shredders for the B roeinsatz have usually only a small mixing. Safety is further reduced if color or other properties of the destroyed material facilitate reconstruction.
* If the particle size is smaller, the throughput of the device will be lower. In order to achieve a desired throughput, it is necessary to purchase a more powerful and thus more expensive shredder. In this case, check that the boundary conditions allow for a lower level of safety and thus a cheaper device if it meets the requirements of the protection requirement.


This will be illustrated by two examples:

* A company often has to destroy files with the highest protection requirements (company confidential, secret). Due to the rather small size of the files, no high throughput is to be expected. In this case, a shredder of security grade P-6 or P-7 must be used.
* In a company, open documents and documents up to normal protection requirements (for internal use only) are destroyed. Documents with higher protection requirements with few pages are only rarely destroyed. Here, a shredder of security level P-5 is acceptable. The documents with higher protection requirements are then together with others, eg. open records, to destroy, in order to achieve a sufficient mixing of the particles.


Data carriers with documents in reduced form (eg microfilm, microfiche) as well as magnetic stripe cards, chip cards, CDs and DVDs can also be destroyed with suitable destruction devices. To achieve the same level of security, they must be cut into smaller particle sizes. The standard DIN 66399 Part 2 also specifies particle sizes for microfilms. Currently, however, there are no more microfilm killers available on the market. Destruction of microfilm is therefore only possible by burning or melting.

Destruction devices are subject to normal wear and tear due to their use. Destruction of material that is not suitable for the destruction device can result in damage. In both cases, the cutting quality is impaired, so that a check of the destruction material is necessary at regular intervals. Here, a comparison of the extermination material by means of visual inspection is usually sufficient against the information from the device documentation.



