#M 2.254 Creation of a security concept for the outsourcing project
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

For every outsourcing project, a security concept must exist. This can, among other things, be based on the IT-Grundschutz catalogs. Outsourcing projects are characterized by the fact that many technical and organizational details only emerge in the course of planning and migration of the systems. The safety concept, which is developed after commissioning a service provider, will therefore in most cases not be complete and final at all and must be constantly further developed and concretised during the migration phase by all those involved. The migration phase is therefore of crucial importance for the success of the overall project and is described in detail in Measure M 2.255 Secure migration in outsourcing projects.

In general, security concepts for outsourcing projects differ only slightly from security concepts for self-powered IT systems. However, the following peculiarities arise, which must be taken into account:

* From a technical point of view, three parties usually participate in the outsourcing project: Outsourcing client Outsourcing service provider Network provider The network provider provides the connection between the outsourcing parties. The responsibility for the network connection usually falls to the outsourcing service provider.
* Each participant must create and implement their own security concept, which also includes the special outsourcing project. Thus, security concepts are required: for the sphere of influence of the outsourcing service provider, for the sphere of influence of the client as well as for the interfaces and the communication between these areas.
* In addition to the individual concepts, a security concept for the entire system is to be created, which considers the security in the interaction of the individual systems.
* The various sub-concepts must be coordinated between the client and the service providers. The client is not directly involved in the security concept of the outsourcing service provider, but should check in an audit whether it is available and sufficient. The client may also resort to external third parties for the audit.


The security requirements mentioned in M .2.251 Specification of the security requirements for outsourcing projects and M .2.253 contract design with the outsourcing service provider form the basis for the security concept. Based on the basic requirements described there, the detailed design must take place in the security concept, whereby, for example, the measures are specified and contact persons are specified by name.

Experience has shown that the transition (migration) of tasks and IT systems from the client to the outsourcing service provider is a project phase in which security precautions can increasingly be expected. For this reason, the security concept must deal with migration regulations and measures, which are dealt with more precisely in M 2.255 Secure migration for outsourcing projects.

Below are some aspects and topics that should be described in detail in the security concept. Since the details of a security concept depend directly on the outsourcing project, the list is to be understood as a suggestion and makes no claim to completeness. In addition to an overview of the precautionary situation that serves to motivate the security measures and the organizational, infrastructural and personnel security measures, measures from the following areas may be useful:



## Examples 
* Handling of data and valuable resources such as printer paper and storage media, in particular regulations for making copies and deleting / destroying
* Defining actions for which the four-eyes principle applies




