#M 2.401 Handling of mobile data carriers and devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Depending on the technical design, a large amount of data at high throughput rates can be exchanged via mobile data carriers. The variants of mobile data carriers were up to a few years ago also quite oversimplified. Traditionally, only removable media such as floppy disks or CDs have been used for data exchange. In the meantime, mobile data carriers can be found in a multitude of variants, which are not always recognizable as such at first glance. For example, there are wristwatches or music players with integrated data memory. The usual size of this integrated data storage starts here with a few hundred megabytes and can certainly reach up to several gigabytes.

Therefore, some basic aspects should be considered when dealing with removable media and mobile devices. It is clear

* which mobile data carriers are to be used in the institution (see also M 2.9 Use of non-released hardware and software),
* which are actually used and who uses them (eg via inventories as described in M 2.2 resource management),
* which data may be stored on mobile data carriers and which may not (see also M 2.217 Careful classification and handling of information, applications and systems),
* how the data stored on these mobile data carriers are protected against unauthorized access, manipulation and loss,
* with which external data carriers can be exchanged and which safety regulations must be observed (see B 5.2 Data medium exchange),
* how to prevent these mobile data carriers from being used for the unauthorized disclosure of information,
* how to prevent the spread of malware  via the mobile data carriers.


It should also be clarified whether employees should be able to use their private mobile data carriers and devices within the institution, as well as whether employees store private data on official mobile data carriers and devices or use. It is also to be determined whether the mobile data carriers and devices brought by external users can be used within the institution, for example to exchange files.

The more restrictive the security requirements are for handling mobile data carriers and devices, the higher are the limitations in everyday working life. Therefore, all security requirements should be weighed to determine whether they are appropriate.

The multiplicity and variants of data carriers will continue to increase. Disks become increasingly invisible because they integrate with other devices. It should be checked on a regular basis whether the security requirements for the handling of mobile data carriers and devices are still current, starting with whether all variants of current data carriers are still covered ,

Mobile data carriers can easily be lost or stolen on the way. Therefore, confidential information on mobile data carriers should be encrypted. The best way to do this is to use products that ensure that all data stored on mobile data carriers is automatically encrypted (see also M 4.29 Use of an Encryption Product for Portable IT systems).

All IT systems should be provided with a boot lock that prevents them from booting from external media such as floppy disks, CD-ROMs or USB sticks, so that software can not be played in uncontrolled manner or configuration changes can be made. Further notes on this can be found in the M 4.4 Appropriate Handling of Drives for Removable Media and External Data Storage.

The appropriate procedure for the respective institution should be documented and prepared in a safety guideline for the employees. In order to adequately mitigate the risks posed by mobile data carriers, various technical measures are sensible (see, for example, M 4.200 Handling USB storage media or M 4.232 Secure use of additional memory cards), but not sufficient. It is indispensable to sensitize employees accordingly.



