#M 2.146 Safe operation of a network management system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

For the secure operation of a network management tool or a complex network management system, which may for example be composed of several different network management tools, the secure configuration of all components involved must be checked and ensured. This includes the operating systems on which the network management system (s) are operated, the external databases that are usually required for a network management system, the protocol used (see M 2.144 Using SNMP as network management protocol) and the active network components themselves Before the operation of a network management system, the determination of the requirements for operation and the establishment of a network management concept must be made (see M 2.143 Development of a network management concept).

In particular, the following points should be noted:

* To avoid reading or changing the network management information, the computer on which the network management console is operated must be adequately protected. These include, for example, installation in a specially protected room, the use of screen locks, password protection for the network management console and other security mechanisms of the underlying operating system.
* The measure M 2.144 Use of SNMP as network management protocol has to be taken into account against the background of safe operation. In particular, suitable configuration of the active network components on the basis of the protocol used prevents reading of the MIBs and other information by unauthorized persons (see M 4.80 Secure Access Mechanisms in Remote Administration and M 4.82 Secure Configuration of Active Network Components).
* If network management functions are performed decentrally according to the client / server model or by using X Window technology, safe operation must also be ensured for them.
* Integrity testing of the software used must be carried out at regular intervals to detect unauthorized changes at an early stage.
* The network management system must be tested for its behavior in a system crash. In particular, an automatic restart should be possible in order to minimize the time span during which the local network is not monitored. The network management database must not be damaged by a system crash and must be available again after a restart since the configuration data it contains are essential for the operation of the network management system. This data must therefore be specially secured so that, on the one hand, they are still available and, on the other hand, no old or faulty configuration data is used during a restart, which may have been provoked by an attacker for this reason. For the protection of the database used, the module B 5.7 Database may also have to be considered.
* When restoring backed-up data, care must be taken to ensure that files that are relevant for the secure operation of the network management system, such as configuration data, password files and also the metaconfiguration files for the actual network components, are up-to-date The following data is relevant for operation of a network management system: Network management system configuration data, which must be located in appropriately protected directories.Configuration data of the network components (meta configuration files), which must also be located in correspondingly protected directories.Password files f Dasr the network management system. In this case, for example, the password and the possibility of encrypted storage of the password must be taken into account (see M 2.11 Control of Password Usage).
* An administration of the active network components via the network should then be restricted and an administration via the local interfaces should be carried out, if the fulfillment of the requirements for confidentiality and integrity of the network management information can not be ensured. In this case, a central network management is not necessary.




