#M 2.583 Appropriate selection of a network management system
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

To manage a complex network and its components, a suitable network management system should be selected. For this, the current network situation must be determined (see M 2.139 Actual recording of the current network situation), a network management concept must be defined (see M 2.143 Development of a network management concept) and the requirements for the network management system must be determined (see M 2.145 Requirements for a network management tool). Depending on the size of the network to be managed, different implementations may be expedient here:

* For small and medium-sized networks, network management can be carried out through a collection of individual tools or through a network management system.
* For large networks, a network management system should be used.


Choosing the right network management system is therefore very important. The following criteria should be taken into account when choosing the system to be procured:

* What features does the product offer?
* Cost of acquiring the software for acquiring additional hardware (some systems require one or more centralized management servers to be purchased.) For installation and operating expenses (and external experts may be required to do so) for the training of the administrators (eg migration costs for an existing platform, adaptation / redevelopment of local software, construction measures eg secure server room).
* Investment security To what extent is the network management product scalable (eg the number of manageable components) How are the migration paths to the considered solution How are the migration paths from this solution to another product?
* Integration with other products Can an existing network management system be integrated? Can an existing backup system be integrated? What third-party applications are available for this product?
* Reliability and Resilience Are there any statements or even guarantees about maximum downtime? Is a hot swap possible for core components? Is there a native backup and recovery mechanism? In the event of a failure of the network management system, mechanisms for controlled restart must exist within the management system. This includes u. U. the import of data from a data backup and the automatic consistency check, ideally with conflict resolution in the determination of inconsistencies. Are regular updates made available? Are they easy to play?
* Security: Access Restrictions on Management Capabilities Can a division of administration activities be made? Can z. B. the management of components be restricted to certain areas?
* Security: Network administration via the networkHow are remote access secured? Can remote access be encrypted? Is it ensured that a (strong) authentication is required before a remote administration? Is it possible that the authorization for remote administration to certain persons or Roles Are Users Automatically Informed About Remote Access?
* Security: Data security, data protectionWhen the collected data is stored securely (access restrictions, encryption)? Is the data transfer between the management components secure (authentication, encryption, integrity assurance)? Is it possible to integrate virus scanners? • Can the type of information collected be regulated (anonymisation, traceability, provability)? What logging options are available?
* Ease of useThere is a graphical user interface? How simple is the navigation? Is the local language or even several languages ??supported (in case of global use) Are exceptions and alerts displayed appropriately? Is the monitoring, also in the detail level, adjustable? t hidden properly by network components (so that the user does not need to be an expert for the particular component that needs to be managed)? Are there online help and instructions?
* Ergonomics in the management of complex systemsWhich supports various network protocols, network components and operating systems (eg, routers), how does the platform deal with geographically dispersed systems, and what is its representation? How easy is it to integrate new components or remove from the system (autodiscovery, manual)?
* Conformity to standards (depending on the environment, conformity to at least one standard may be required) Application Program Interface (API), in the event that own extensions of the network management system are necessary.


The aspects listed here are to be understood as indications in the evaluation of management systems. Depending on the local conditions, requirements should be formulated for the network management system, which can be used as knockout criteria in the decision. The above criteria should always be weighted to reflect the local preferences.

The requirements of the network management system and the services of the selected network management system are usually not fully reconcilable. This makes it necessary to adapt the network management concept created after selecting the specific product to its functional scope.



