#M 2.520 Safe and complete deletion of cloud user data
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Cloud management can, for various reasons, mean that parts of data or all the data of a cloud user must be safely deleted. For example, retention requirements may expire, extraordinary requests for deletion of data from third parties to the cloud user may be made, or termination of the cloud services contract.

The deadlines for deletion and the way the cloud service provider is asked to do so usually form part of the contractual arrangements between cloud service providers and cloud users. This should be taken into account in the drafting of the contract (see measure M 2.517 Contracting with third party service providers).

However, deleting cloud user data does not only refer to data managed within the cloud services, but also to data for cloud management processes, such as cloud management. B. Accounting data, role and entitlement data, logging, and cloud contract data (eg, in the cloud repository), unless legal requirements mandate a retention requirement for the cloud service provider.

The cloud service provider must be able to erase the data from all virtual and physical storage media in accordance with the contractual agreements.

In order to ensure that the deletion is complete, the cloud service provider must be able to determine the location of all data. h.er needs to know what data is stored on which storage systems and media. To delete the data from the cloud storage, the measure M 2.527 Secure deletion in SAN environments has to be implemented.

For safe deletion or destruction, suitable procedures and other suitable equipment, applications or services must be available. For this purpose, the cloud service provider must define a process for secure deletion (in accordance with the contractual agreements concluded in writing) and assign responsibilities for implementation. The specifications of module B 1.15 Deleting and destroying data, insofar as they can be transferred to cloud computing, must be taken into account for corresponding specifications and processes.



