#M 2.505 Determination of technical-organizational measures according to the state of the art in the processing of personal data
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, data protection officer, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: Data Protection Officer, Specialist, IT Security Officer

A very important area of ??data protection is the technical and organizational measures that must be taken to ensure the right to informational self-determination and to protect personal data against misuse, errors and accidents as far as possible are.

The measures that are needed depend not only on the type of data and the task for which they are to be used, but also on the organizational conditions, the external circumstances, the personal situation and other framework conditions.

The laws therefore refrain from prescribing certain individual measures, but only require in general terms to take the technical and organizational measures necessary to ensure that the provisions of these laws are enforced.

The effect of these measures in the area of ??automated processing is laid down by the data protection laws in the catalog. According to B9BDSG, the measures should be suitable

These requirements differ in the formulations and consequences of the individual state data protection laws.

Decisive in the planning and execution of the technical and organizational measures is that they are understood as a cooperative protection system. In addition to the legally required data protection, such a protection system also ensures the orderly fulfillment of tasks and proper business operations. Therefore, it is important, the data protection concept in each case in coordination with the technical concepts of the relevant organizational units and the other security concepts, z. B. the information security concept, to develop and apply.

The effort required for the necessary measures should be commensurate with the intended purpose of protection (for the protection levels, see BSDS Standard 100-2 or country-specific regulations on data protection). The more serious the infringement threatening the person concerned and the greater the risk of damage occurring, the higher the reasonable effort. While there is a discretion in the selection of the individual measures, but not in the determination of the level of protection. Measures identified as necessary must also be taken when they make the development and deployment of an IT application more difficult. If this can not be ensured with the measures provided for, either a higher outlay must be accepted or a different, less costly process design must be considered. These measures are to be updated according to the current state of the art.

It must also be ensured that the statutory data protection regulations are implemented through information security and data protection regulations.

Insofar as a data protection officer (bDSB) is institutionalized (in some data protection laws there are legal requirements for this), guidelines, circulars o.  ., Which house management issues as a cross-sectional regulation for the handling of personal data in the entire department to be worked out with his involvement.

He should always be consulted on the handling of personal data when dealing with service or company agreements between the service or company and the personnel or works council. Compliance with the regulations should be monitored.

Examples of technical-organizational measures are

* the physical deletion of data (see, for example, M 4.32 Physical deletion of the data carrier before and after use),
* cryptographic encryption (see eg M 5.36 Encryption under Unix and Windows NT),
* Internal IT and data protection regulations (see eg M 2.1 definition of responsibilities and regulations) as well as
* Logging and documentation of procedures to ensure traceability (see, for example, M 4.25 Using logging in the Unix system).


An overview of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs measures that are suitable for achieving the above-mentioned requirements is shown in the table for module B 1.5 Data Protection under the IT Baseline Protection Tools.



