#M 2.37 The tidy workplace
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: employees

Every employee should be encouraged to leave their jobs in a reserved place. IT users must ensure that unauthorized persons are denied access to IT applications or access to data. All employees must monitor their jobs with the same care and ensure that no sensitive information is freely accessible and that the availability, confidentiality or integrity of data can not be adversely affected. It must not be possible for unauthorized persons to access data carriers (such as floppy disks, USB sticks or hard disks) or documents (eg prints).

For a short absence during working hours, it is sufficient to close the room, if possible, and / or to lock the screen in such a way that access is only possible after successful authentication. In the event of the planned absence of an employee (eg longer meetings, business trips, holidays, training events), the workplace must be cleaned up so that no data carriers or documents requiring protection are left unlocked at the workplace. For this, the employees need adequately dimensioned and lockable stowage facilities, such as eg. stable cabinets.

Passwords should also not be visible (as sticky notes on the monitor, in an easily guessed place such as under the desk top or in the unlocked desk drawer) (see M 2.2 Resource Management). Likewise, clear indications (eg names of family members or so-called trivial passwords such as consecutive letters and numbers) should be excluded for fast guessing (see M 2.11 Control of password usage).

Security management supervisors and staff should sporadically check workplaces to see if sensitive information is open to them and if employees are alert to correct progress.



