#M 2.399 Criteria for the procurement and appropriate selection of printers, copiers and multifunction devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Procurement

When procuring new printers, copiers or multifunctional devices, it is possible to select them from the outset in such a way that a high level of security can be achieved in later operation with little additional personnel and organizational effort.

Many printers and copiers are modular. The basic device can be extended by additional functions. These include, for example, additional security mechanisms, such as the support of an authentication via PINs or smart cards. Before printers, copiers and similar devices are procured, therefore, in addition to the general requirements, the security requirements must also be specified. The requirements and the decisions taken on this basis must be documented. Here are some basic requirements for obtaining printers:

* Basic Functional Requirements Should Powerful Devices Be Obtained? Is the Device's Capability Appropriate for the Size of Users? What to Buy for a Printer Type with Which Printing Method? Many devices can be retrofitted with accessories such as net- work, duplex printing, additional paper and authentica- tion.
* General Security Does the system support secure protocols for administration? To enable the devices to be managed from a central location, network-enabled devices must support secure protocols for administration, for example, in the case of a browser-based configuration SSL / TLS.Can information be stored encrypted? To prevent access to the data after an (unauthorized) removal of the hard disk, some devices encrypt the information on the hard disk.It is a M  Authentication is provided directly on the device (eg via password or PIN entries or chip cards) or can this function be retrofitted? Many devices are provided with authentication, with some only f The administration to secure access to the configuration. However, there are also devices in which all user access can be secured so that information is not printed until the user has authenticated to the device. This protects against the possibility that information transmitted to a network printer or scanned on a copier can be printed out by unauthorized persons. Such a function can also be used for cost control. Are there any other ways to physically protect the devices from theft? Can hardware manipulation be done through the use of a keywrench or For example, it is common for memory modules to be stolen from printers or copiers.
* Safe EraseCan be erased by users after each copy operation Many devices have memory built in, usually in the form of hard drives. If data is stored there unencrypted, it may be read out by unauthorized persons. In addition, there is a risk that attackers will have the pages stored in the device reprinted. Some devices therefore offer functions for clearing the memory. The settings should be made in such a way that they are automatically deleted after each copying process. Is it possible to delete the entire hard disk? The entire hard disk should be available for later disposal to be deleted by overwriting. Deletion of the entire hard disk should only be possible after an appropriate delete command has been entered by a person entitled. Is information on deletion displayed on the screen, as well as the deletion of the last stored data and the deletion Overwriting the entire hard disk should be indicated on the display of the device as much as possible.
* Network security Does the device have network protection mechanisms, such as IP and port filters? Does the device need to be Wi-Fi or Bluetooth-enabled, or is a wired connection sufficient? Using wireless technology involves greater security risks than connecting via cable. For radio-based solutions, this usually requires additional security measures. Does the device support the encryption of the printer communication so that the information to be printed can not be read during transmission over a network? Network protocols should be used to support encryption of the information. An example of this is the Internet Printing Protocol (IPP) in conjunction with SSL (Secure Sockets Layer). Can the device be integrated into an existing IEEE 802.1X environment? IEEE 802.1X enables the authentication of the end devices te on the net. This protects against IT systems being operated unauthorized on the LAN.
* Maintainability Does the manufacturer offer periodic updates and rapidly available security patches? It is particularly important that the manufacturer reacts promptly to known security breaches.Can the maintenance contract be concluded for the product? Access to updates and support services by the manufacturer is only possible in conjunction with a valid maintenance contract.With regard to the maintenance contracts, maximum response times for problem solving can be defined? A maintenance contract is only suitable if the guaranteed reaction and recommissioning times can be covered by the specified requirements for the availability of the devices. Does the dealer or manufacturer provide a technical support service (hotline) that can help in case of problems? ? This aspect should be part of a maintenance contract. When concluding the contract, care must be taken to ensure that the hotline or support staff also speak the language of the people who will usually call there.
* CostsHow high are the acquisition costs of the devices? What are the anticipated ongoing costs, including maintenance, operation and support? These costs should be taken into account during the procurement phase. The contents of the maintenance and support contracts should be checked, for example with regard to the response times, the hotline and the qualification of the staff.




