#M 2.403 Planning the use of directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Errors in the design of a directory service can only be corrected after installation with considerable effort. Therefore, the use of directory services must be carefully planned.

Before a directory service is introduced, it must be decided for which purposes it should be used. Amongst other things, the necessary considerations for the structure of the directory service depend on the intended use. The data to be stored in the directory service also decisively influences the type and scope of the necessary planning. Depending on the complexity of the directory service, the planning for the design of the directory service can last several months, and even exceed one year. The security policy to be defined depends on the planned deployment scenario.

Examples of possible uses of a directory service are:

* Address book for telephone numbers, postal addresses, usa.
* Integration in e-mail systems
* digital certificates, PKI (Public Key Infrastructures)
* network-wide configuration information of IT systems and applications
* uniform central, location-independent user management
* Authentication of people and processes for logging on to IT systems in the network


The above examples show a selection of possible types of use of a directory service and vary in type, size and expression. Combinations of potential applications are not only conceivable, but even represent a strength of the directory services. At the same time, this increases the complexity of the directory service, which presupposes a correspondingly careful planning of its use.

Further questions in the planning arise when determining whether the directory service or parts of it outside the intranet of an organization to be reached.

* How is access to the directory service secured from outside?
* How to secure access to the directory service data?
* Which authentication mechanisms are needed?
* Which data should be accessible anonymously?
* Which data should be accessible after authentication?
* Which cryptographic procedures are required to ensure the confidentiality or integrity of the transmitted data?




## Examples 
* Which purposes and which tasks should be fulfilled and which information should be included?
* Which structure should be chosen in locations, organizations, organizational units and other objects?
* Which object classes are needed and which mandatory or optional attributes should they have?
* Which access rights to the information should be given to the users via the various directory service interfaces?
* Which measures, z. For example, the signing of LDAP packets is planned to effectively prevent unauthorized collection of data from the directory service.




