#M 2.421 Planning the patch and change management process
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Change Manager

Each institution should have set up a clearly defined process for patch and change management and have defined the responsibilities for the various tasks (see M 2.423 Determination of Responsibilities for Patch and Change Management). All changes to hardware and software versions and configurations should be controlled and controlled through the Patch and Change Management process. To capture and evaluate all changes, all IT systems managed by Patch and Change Management should report to the Change Manager. Changes to the configuration and status of the systems should therefore only be possible via the change management.

The patch and change management process can be modeled as follows, based on ITIL:





## Examples 
* Obtaining or developing the patches and changes Many manufacturers provide the ability to receive the necessary information by e-mail about the publication of new hardware or software or about errors that have been fixed in the subscription. The updates and patches are usually made available on Internet servers for download. In part, these sources are only available in conjunction with valid registration or support agreements. Frequently, the installed software or operating system provides the user with the ability to load software changes directly from the particular application or system. Some manufacturers provide their customers with special applications to deliver the products manage and update. In addition, there are also more and more applications that, if allowed by the user and security settings, automatically seek updates from their manufacturers via the Internet and inform the user, if necessary. From a security point of view, however, the automated introduction of changes has disadvantages. Therefore, it should be carefully considered whether such mechanisms should be used. An internal software development could be another way to obtain software changes if security gaps or other requirements make this necessary. However, not only must the necessary specialist knowledge be available, but also the interfaces must be open.
* TestingThe functionality of the systems must be determined after importing the change through a test. For each change, whenever possible, a representative selection of typical application scenarios should be defined and tested with the specialist department. The results are to be documented and compared with the expected results in order to determine possible misconduct. In addition, all log files created during the test must be examined for evidence of malfunction.
* Integrate with Software Distribution, Integrity Testing. Custom package or file formats in which manufacturers make their updates available must be customized for use in an automated software distribution system. This is especially true if active components, such as shell scripts, have to be executed during or after the installation. These adjustments must be tested for effectiveness on a test system before the changes are distributed.




