#M 2.373 Creation of a security policy for VoIP
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

With telephony high expectations are set in their availability. But equally important is their confidentiality. Therefore, the safe and proper operation of telecommunications equipment is particularly important. This can only be ensured if the procedure is integrated into the existing safety specifications.

The central security requirements for VoIP as well as the level of security to be achieved result from the organization-wide security guideline. They should be formulated in a specific security policy for VoIP in order to specify and implement the overarching and generally formulated security policy. In this context, it is necessary to examine whether, in addition to the organization-wide security guideline, further superordinate specifications such as IT guidelines, password guidelines, guidelines for the IT systems on which the VoIP components are operated, or guidelines for Internet use must be taken into account are.

The VoIP security policy must be known to all individuals and groups involved in the planning, procurement, and operation of the VoIP components and its basis for their work. As with all directives, their content and implementation must be regularly reviewed by a higher-level audit.

The security policy should first specify the overall level of security to be achieved and make basic statements about the operation of VoIP. Below are a few points that should be considered.



## Examples 
* if and where VoIP components can be used,
* under which technical conditions VoIP is used. These include, above all, the determination of security measures, the selection and installation of the required security hard- and software as well as specifications for the secure configuration of the affected IT systems.
* which information may not be communicated over VoIP and
* which features and functions should be supported.




