#M 2.508 Management of directories and fulfillment of the reporting requirements for the processing of personal data
Responsible for Initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Data protection officer, specialist responsible

In addition to the central data processing systems, all IT systems used for decentralized data processing must be recorded (see also BSI Standard 100-2, Recording of IT Systems and Recording of IT Applications and the Related Information).

An up-to-date list of the hardware, software and procedures used as well as the personal data collected must be accessible at all times. In some data protection regulations there are specific requirements for the design of these directories.

Procedures for automated processing for the collection, processing or use of personal data must be reported by the responsible authority in an overview (list of procedures). The survey basically contains the information according to    4d and 4eBDSG and is in most cases carried by the bDSB according to   4g paragraph 2 BDSG. Similar regulations also apply to the data protection laws of the countries, provided that the order of a bDSB is provided.

Under certain circumstances, non-public bodies are required to hand over to the competent supervisory authority registrations that are broadly in line with the list of procedures. According to   4d para. 4 BDSG, only those entities that process personal data for the purpose of the transfer are registered in principle.

While there is no obligation to notify public authorities of the Confederation vis-à-vis the Federal Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, public authorities in the Länder are in some cases obliged under Länder law to make such reports vis-à-vis their respective countries Country Data Protection Officers, in particular legislation in the areas of law enforcement and security.

In order to enable the BDSB to fulfill its task of maintaining the list of procedures, the information required in accordance with   4e BDSG must be complete and up-to-date. Particular care must be taken to ensure that the legal basis for data processing and purpose limitation are sufficiently well-defined so that a subsequent change in purpose can be made exclusively within the framework of the legal requirements.



