#M 2.539 Creation of a security concept for cloud use
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

If an institution decides to use cloud services, a security concept must be created for this purpose.

As a rule, IT security concepts for cloud usage projects differ only slightly from security concepts for IT systems that are operated by the institution itself. The security concept should as far as possible be based on the IT-Grundschutz procedure.

One of the few peculiarities in connection with the use of cloud services is the participation of several parties. This must also be taken into account when creating the security concept. As a rule, at least the following three parties are involved in a cloud usage project:

* Client of Cloud Services (using institution)
* Provider of cloud services (cloud service provider)
* one (or more) network providers


In principle, the creation of a security concept must be carried out by each of the named parties. If there is a need for a security concept of the network provider, appropriate agreements with him are usually to be made in advance. The using institution must have the right to verify the security concept of the cloud service provider by means of an audit, which may also be carried out by an independent, qualified third party.

The creation of the security concept serves to document the necessary security measures in connection with the use of cloud services. The basis for this documentation are the requirements resulting from the creation of the security policy for cloud use (see M 2.535 Creation of a security policy for cloud usage) for a specific use case or a specific cloud service to derive.

The security concept for a cloud service should be based on the security requirements and security measures for a classic IT service. The resulting measures should form the basis for the consideration of the cloud service.

The security concept for cloud use should also describe the particular vulnerability posed by cloud service provision. In particular, the following points should be considered:

* Premature or compulsory termination of contract
* Lack of portability of data (especially software as a service), applications (especially Platform as a Service) and systems (especially Infrastructure as a Service) in the event that the chosen cloud service is established Standards deviates
* Dependency of a cloud service provider due to the inability to switch vendors (vendor lock-in)
* Use of proprietary data formats can compromise the integrity of the information and make it difficult to change the provider
* Joint use of the cloud infrastructure by several institutions (multi-tenancy)
* Lack of knowledge about the location of information
* In general, high mobility of the information
* Unauthorized access to information, for example, by administrators of the cloud service provider or third parties


Derived from these specific threats to the specific cloud service, concrete security measures must be defined. In any case, these should be bindingly agreed with the cloud service provider as part of the contract design. In particular, the following points should be considered:

* Guidelines for the secure administration of cloud services (for example, the four-eye principle for certain, particularly critical administrative tasks such as the copying of individual data files or systems)
* Specifications for operating processes and processes in security management (interfaces for example for change, incident, security incident and risk management)
* Regulations for the monitoring of service provision and reporting
* Encryption of information
* Assignment and withdrawal of authorizations
* Perform backups, both by the cloud service provider and the institution




