#M 2.264 Regular processing of encrypted data during archiving
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Information Security Management, IT Leader

Cryptographic processes are subject to a technological aging process, as over time mathematical or technical advances may reveal weaknesses that were not yet known or relevant to their selection.

With retention periods of 10 years or longer, encrypted or signed data must be repeatedly re-keyed with new keys and, if necessary, new algorithms to protect the confidentiality and integrity of the data continue to protect.

In order to assess whether an algorithm is still reliable and sufficiently secure, developments in cryptography should be continuously monitored. In addition, relevant sources of information should be continuously evaluated as to whether there are any known ways to compromise existing procedures.

If the cryptographic methods used are no longer up-to-date and therefore the confidentiality or integrity of the encrypted data can no longer be ensured, the data must be re-encrypted or signed.

The following aspects must be taken into consideration during the re-encryption (see also module B 1.7 Crypto Concept):

* A crypto-algorithm that is secure by current standards and that can be assumed to be secure for a long period of time must be used.
* A key encryption and key distribution method must be chosen to meet the requirements of the archiving application.
* The newly created keys have to be distributed in a secure way to the users of the crypto procedure.
* Authentication of the cryptographic keys (eg by means of an electronic certificate) must be provided for.
* The source file must be destroyed after successful encryption, with WORM media the entire volume must be destroyed.
* If discs are discarded during re-encryption, they must be disposed of safely.
* In addition to the main data carriers, backup data carriers must also be disposed of safely or old files safely deleted.


The distribution of the keys can be done in two different ways: If the keys are to be generated by an independent, trustworthy authority, it must be ensured that the new keys are authentic and unobtrusive to the original All the owners of the document will be transferred.

Alternatively, when using asymmetric encryption techniques, the document owner may, on request, create a new key pair and communicate the public key to the archiving instance.

In any case, it has to be taken into account that such a re-encryption requires a certain lead: the owners of the data or the keys must be notified, the necessary keys must be generated and distributed. With a large number of different owners and large amounts of data, a corresponding expense must be taken into account.

When choosing a long-term reliable new crypto-method, a current and accepted secure algorithm should be chosen. If no really good alternative is available for the currently used algorithm, it should be checked whether an increase of the key length as a transition solution is possible.

After re-encryption and re-archiving, the old data remains to be reliably destroyed. If the original data has been archived on WORM media, the data carriers on which the data was stored in the previous encryption must be disposed of safely. On rewritable media, the data must be reliably erased (see also M 2.167 Selection of suitable methods for deletion or destruction of data). It should be noted that the data stored on backup media must also be re-encrypted and old backup media must be selectively deleted or destroyed (see M 6.84 Regular backup of system and archive data).



