#M 2.493 License Management and Licensing Aspects in Procurement for Lotus Notes / Domino
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: procurer, specialist responsible

With the growing complexity of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform and the common licensing policies of all major software vendors, licensing is becoming increasingly difficult to master. For Lotus Notes / Domino licensing aspects play an increasingly important role. On the one hand, licensing can save a considerable amount of money, and on the other hand, it is increasingly technically and organizationally necessary to ensure that the licensing is appropriate in terms of the contract and its implementation and does not involve any or minimal risks.

In particular, it must be taken into consideration that in the case of processes requiring archiving, it may be necessary to maintain program components for the entire archiving period, since accessing archived data without these components may not be possible or extremely expensive. Common licenses with fixed maturity include a clause providing for the destruction of all copies of the program after the license has expired. Mandatory archiving in the case of Lotus Notes / Domino can exist for emails, for workflows, but also for other components, eg. B. Self-developed applications running on the Lotus Notes / Domino platform.



## Examples 
* Is there an appropriate licensing and license management process that is appropriate for mapping the licensing of Lotus Notes / Domino?
* Is there a licensing audit process that ensures competent preparation and monitoring of licensing audits?




