#M 2.171 Appropriate selection of a system management product
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

After recording the current system situation (see M 2.168 IT system analysis before introducing a system management system) and determining the management strategy (see M 2.169 Developing a system management strategy), a suitable system management system must be selected. Depending on the size of the system to be managed, different implementations may be appropriate:

* For small systems, system management can be done by the system administrator by hand.
* For small and medium-sized systems, system management can also be performed through a collection of individual tools.
* For large systems, a system management system should be used.


Modern network-capable operating systems are usually already equipped with functions that provide centralized management z. B. of users and user groups. For the Unix area, for example, NIS or NIS + can be mentioned here, in the Windows area the Windows domain concept allows a central user administration via the domain controller. In general, there are also possibilities to operate a network-wide policy management.

In small and medium-sized networks, software management, computer configuration management and the monitoring of system components are the most important problem areas. Additional software tools can then be used to perform the tasks individually. Especially in areas covered by network management (configuration management, monitoring), the use of a network management tool can be considered.

For the Windows area z. B. Tools such as the Microsoft Management Console, which provides a unified central view of all administration tools, as well as the Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) call. So z. B offers. the product SCCM offers the administrator the following options:

* Inventory of hardware and software components
* Installing and distributing data and applications on network computers
* remote maintenance
* Support for the remote administration of computers  over the network


For the Unix area can z. B. For the administration and distribution of software the program rdist can be used, with which on remote computers software can be installed or updated. It is possible to install from a central software pool exactly the products on the respective computers that are required by the employees for the execution of their tasks. More, also free, available additional programs (mostly from the university environment) allow z. B. Monitoring of network about SNMP.

These solutions offer a cost-effective alternative for smaller and medium sized networks. However, they usually require a well-versed administrator, who may also make adjustments to local conditions or integrate additional functionality through self-programming.

For larger and larger networks, however, such solutions are inappropriate because the functionality is located in a variety of non-integrated tools. For large enterprise or authority networks, only system management systems are considered. Before introducing such a system, it should be noted that this usually entails considerable interference with the running system and must be well planned. Choosing the right management system is therefore important. The following criteria should be taken into account when choosing the system to be procured:

* What features does the product offer?
* Costs for acquiring additional hardware (Some systems require the purchase of one or more centralized management servers) for installation and operating expenses (in some circumstances, external parties may be required to work on it) .) for the training of employees other (eg migration costs for an existing platform, adaptation / redevelopment of local software, construction measures, eg secured server room)
* Investment assurance To what extent is the system management product scalable (eg number of computers expandable) Can the platform grow with the company (eg number of possible management domains, delegation of tasks) How are the migration paths to the platform? How are the migration paths from this platform to another platform?
* Integration with other productsWhat server or client system platforms are supported? Can an existing network management system be integrated? Can an existing backup system be integrated? What third-party applications are available for this product?
* Reliability and Resilience Are there any statements or even guarantees about maximum downtime? Is a hot swap possible for core components? Is there a native backup and recovery mechanism? If the management system fails, mechanisms for controlled restart must exist within the management system. Under certain circumstances, this may include importing data from a data backup and automatic consistency check - ideally with conflict resolution when determining inconsistencies. Are updates made available on a regular basis? Are they easy to play?
* Security: Access Restrictions on Management FeaturesCan Access to User ID Level (Which Users Allowed What?) Be Restricted Can Component Level Access (What Computer Can What?) Be Restricted? executable commands can be restricted depending on the user or the system, can a division of the administration activities be carried out? So kannz. For example, does the management of components be restricted to specific areas (eg, only the departmental computers)?
* Security: Administration of computers via the networkHow are remote access secured? Can remote access be encrypted? Is it ensured that a (strong) authentication is required before a remote administration? Is it possible, the authorization for remote administration on Restrict Specific People or Roles? Is the user automatically informed about remote access?
* Security: Data security, data protectionWhen the data collected are stored securely (access restrictions, encryption) If the data transfer between the management components takes place securely (authentication, encryption, integrity assurance), the type of information collected can be regulated (Anonymization, traceability, provability) Is it possible to integrate anti-virus programs, which logging options are available, and whether local software can be monitored or prevented?
* Usability Does it provide a graphical user interface? How easy is navigation? Supporting the local language or even multiple languages ??(for global use) Can programs run easily (even on remote machines)? How easy is that? Interface redesigned by the user Are exceptions and alarms displayed appropriately Is the monitoring, also in the detail level, adjustable? Is the complexity of network components appropriately hidden (so that the user is not an expert for the particular component to be managed)? Can all functions be achieved through the same user interface? Are online help and instructions available?
* Ergonomics in the management of complex systemsWhich supports different network protocols, network components and operating systems, how does the platform deal with geographically distributed systems and what is their representation? How easy is it to integrate or remove new components from the system (Autodiscovery, manually)?
* Conformity to Standards (Depending on the environment, at least one standard may be required) Platform-Distributed Management Environment (DME) by the Open Software Foundation (OSF) Desktop Management Task Force (DMTF) Specification DatabaseWhatDBCMS (Data Base Management Systems Is SQL supported as a query language, in case the management software contains its own database? Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) of the Object Management Group (OMG) Application Program Interface (API), in the event that own extensions of the management system are necessary (eg APIs for SNMP, XMP, DMI).


The aspects listed here are to be understood as indications in the evaluation of management systems. Depending on local circumstances, due to the current system situation (see M 2.168 IT system analysis before the introduction of a system management system) and due to the management strategy (see M 2.169 Developing a system management strategy), requirements for the management system should be formulated KO criteria can be used in the decision. The above criteria should always be weighted to reflect the local preferences.

The requirements for the management system and the services of the selected management system are usually not fully reconciled. This makes it necessary to adapt the created management strategy to the scope of its function after selecting the specific product.



