#M 2.207 Security concept for Lotus Notes / Domino
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer

As with every software product used in an institution, a suitable security concept must be created for the use of Lotus Notes / Domino. Depending on the size, the resources and the organizational structure of the institution, the security concept for Lotus Notes / Domino can be incorporated into a result document (eg a security policy) or a set of result documents. A modular documentation of the security concept facilitates the target-group-specific distribution of the documents. For example, an application development guideline could only be distributed to the application developers for the Lotus Notes / Domino platform or to administrators.

The following points of the security conception are to be processed and the results documented. If parts of the security concept are not relevant for the specific use of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform in the institution (for example, if no application development takes place for the Lotus Notes / Domino platform), this must be documented in the security policy ,



## Examples 
* The security policy must be in compliance with the applicable security policy of the institution (see M 2.192 Developing an information security guideline).
* The respective target groups and the relevant concepts / guidelines of the Lotus Notes / Domino security concept have to be mentioned.
* The concepts mentioned below should either be included or referenced as part of the security policy. It must be ensured that the current version of the concepts is available via the references.
* The guideline liability for all target groups (for example Lotus Notes users, Lotus Domino administrators, executives, project managers, software developers, software architects) must be ensured, unless a corresponding general provision for all policies of the institution is already in place Liability exists.
* If several Lotus Notes / Domino environments (installations) are in use in the institution, the environment-specific features of the security concept must be documented.
* The security policy for using Lotus Notes / Domino must be coordinated across the organization and disclosed to all users. It is advisable to prepare the most important content for the respective target groups in a short and precise form. B. in the form of a leaflet or a website. If security requirements change, all users must be informed.




