#M 2.468 Licensing of Software in Terminal Server Environments
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If applications that are currently used in a client-server-based network architecture are to be centrally provided on a terminal server, licensing-relevant contracts must be checked in advance of the migration. For example, protection mechanisms may not be effective against software misappropriation, as it may use the number of installations as the basis for measuring the number of users.

On a terminal server, however, the application usually only needs to be installed once. Depending on the available resources of the application server, it can then be executed by any number of people at the same time. The protection of a so-called hardwiredongles may also be undermined.

The unlawful use of unlicensed software may be prosecuted under civil and even criminal law. Therefore, the use of the programs provided on the Terminal Server should be regulated and appropriately logged in accordance with the licenses purchased.

Some terminal server systems, such as Microsoft Windows Server 2003, allow the control of concurrent users by means of license servers. In addition, among other things, a number of registered terminals can be monitored under license law.

The installation and activation of a license server to use the terminal server service is even mandatory in this software solution. A terminal server running Microsoft Windows 2003 fails after 120 days without connecting to a license server and does not allow logins from users. The correct functionality of the license server thus becomes of considerable importance for the availability of the terminal server.

The proper functioning of the license server should therefore be monitored regularly and its replacement should be planned and prepared in the event of its failure. In large installations, the terminal server must be designed to be redundant as a precautionary measure.



