#M 2.364 Planning the administration as of Windows 2003
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Before the introduction of a Windows server as of version 2003, extensive planning must be carried out so that it can be regulated, safely installed and subsequently operated safely. The description of the deployment scenario and the definition of the purpose of the application imply requirements for the administration. It must be based on the specifications of the security policy (see M 2.316 Defining a security policy for a general server) and documented. Among other things, it should be noted that the use of the server in the role of a user's workstation is to be omitted. Administrative changes that are carried out during operation can cause safety-related side effects and should therefore only be carried out with particular care.

The administration can take place locally with access to the console of the server, from another computer within the LAN or from outside, for example via VPN. When planning the tasks and authorizations of the administrators, regulations regarding access authorization must be made (see M 2.6 Assignment of access authorizations). In doing so, the previously developed function separation (see M 2.5 Task distribution and function separation) must be observed. Unnecessary access and access rights to the server are to be avoided. The roles of the Windows Server administrators must be recorded in writing and aligned with the security policies of the institution.



## Examples 
* Monitor Event Viewer
* Install, maintain and uninstall software
* Add / change / remove Windows components
* Updates (Windows Update)
* Check utilization
* Monitor the function of the hardware
* Monitor the function of applications and services
* Wait file system
* Adjust rights according to new requirements
* User / group administration, create, move or delete new user groups
* Make adjustments to the OU design
* Make changes or adjustments to Active Directory
* Secure data
* Check network connectivity
* Check virus protection and wait
* Waiting for the registration database
* Administer date / time / time zones




