#M 2.284 Safe decommissioning of routers and switches
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Configuration or log files stored on active network components contain a wealth of information about the network, the infrastructure, the organization, and possibly also about people in the company. If a device is passed on to external parties (such as the manufacturer or the service provider in the event of a warranty replacement or to any purchaser), then this information can be evaluated.

For example, the following information can be obtained from configuration files:

* Used protocols (especially routing protocols), IP addresses and subnets
* VLAN configuration
* Access Control Lists
* Passwords and SNMP Community Strings
* Name and contact details of the administrator (banner)


Due to the sensitivity of this information, it must be ensured that the files are deleted or made illegible before they are taken out of service or replaced with defective or outdated devices. The procedure depends heavily on the manufacturer of the device. In the security policy for routers and switches, corresponding responsibilities should be defined.

Many devices support the function of factory reset. By a command or by pressing a switch, the components are reset to the factory defaults. However, it should be noted that this reset does not necessarily reset all saved settings to their original state. A subsequent check is therefore absolutely necessary. On other devices, configuration files can be completely deleted by appropriate commands or replaced by other files. If the devices used do not have any of the mentioned functions, an individual reconfiguration or the physical destruction of the memory is required.

Stored log files can also be deleted or overwritten on some devices using the factory reset. However, this is an exception. Often, a log file can be deleted with a corresponding command. It is therefore important to ensure that log files are no longer available before decommissioning a device. If the devices used do not have any of the mentioned functions, the physical destruction of the memory may be necessary.

Often, routers and switches are externally labeled with IP addresses, hostnames, or other technical information. This label should also be removed before disposal.



