#M 2.574 Extensive documentation of software development
Responsible for initiation: Head of Department

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, department

In the software development must be comprehensibly documented, so that security-relevant aspects are recognizable and the software remains maintainable. The documentation can be differentiated into project documentation, information about the project management of the software development and the documentation for the development of the system (system documentation).

The project documentation should at least contain the following information in detail:

* Requirements for the system to be developed: in the form of a catalog of requirements or specifications
* Basis of decision for self-development or commissioning: The decision-making basis, including the risk assessment, which has led to the awarding of a contract, in-house development or other form of development, must be adequately documented.
* Documentation of the awarding process: For public as well as for most private institutions, the traceability of the order is at least stipulated by internal controlling.
* Contract: All services, conditions and agreements between the client and the contractor must be recorded in writing.
* Documentation of the course of the project: Not only during the current project, but also in order to be able to solve later questions, it is important to document the course of the project comprehensibly. This includes recording responsibilities, protocols, project decisions, milestones, approvals, and approvals.


The system documentation contains the documentation of the development process, including:

* System Specification
* System Architecture and Design (Schedules)
* Interface Definitions (including documentation of internally used libraries, development environments and other software)
* Coding guidelines (eg naming conventions, structuring guidelines, etc.)
* Code commenting
* Documentation of the configuration
* Documentation of changes
* Documentation of the quality assurance and the tests (see also M 2.568 test procedure for software)
* Documentation for installation and commissioning, instructions for the administrators
* Operating instructions for the users


In particular, if certification of a system is desired (eg according to the Common Criteria), it is advisable to obtain the documentation requirements for the certification in good time and to adhere to them. Subsequent documentation can be very costly or contain errors.



