#M 2.561 Create specification compliant SOA implementations and configurations
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Implementations and configurations in service-oriented architectures (SOA) must conform to standards (eg WS security). This must be ensured by using suitable technical aids and organizational processes (eg four-eyes principle). In addition, unproven or poorly spread standards and frameworks should be avoided.

Since the technology is advancing rapidly, particularly in the field of service-oriented architectures, continuous further development with regard to current standards, protocols, architectural approaches and techniques is absolutely necessary.

Institutions should use as far as possible standardized network protocols, which have also been developed for the respective application and have integrated security mechanisms.

If protocols are used in an architecture that do not provide adequate protection mechanisms, additional techniques or alternative protocols should be used to ensure an adequate level of security. In particular, older network protocols are often not adequately protected against attacks. For example, File Transfer Protocol (FTP) does not have any protection mechanisms regarding the authenticity, integrity or confidentiality of messages. These functions must be provided in other ways.

It is also important to ensure that only key sequences and cryptographic procedures are used which provide sufficient security, eg. B.SOAPwithSHA-512 and AES-256 (see M 2.164 Selection of a suitable cryptographic method).

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



