#M 2.510 Notification and regulation of retrieval procedures for the processing of personal data
Responsible for Initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Data protection officer, specialist responsible

The automatic call procedure is particularly important from the point of view of data protection and data protection, because the requesting body, depending on the establishment of such a connection, without individual decision of the competent authority over the entire stock or substantial parts of the personal data held by the transmitting body can have. Therefore, the corresponding legal regulations (eg B10BDSG) already make technical and organizational data protection mandatory as part of the planning of call-off procedures.

Automated retrieval procedures are defined in data protection laws as a phase of data processing in which personal data stored or processed by data processing is disclosed to a third party in such a way that the data is made available for retrieval by the data processing agency and the retrieval is performed ,

An example of an automated retrieval procedure is the electronic land register, which allows authorized subscribers, in accordance with statutory provisions, to have direct online access to land register data from their workstation computers. This service can be used in particular by notaries, lawyers, banks, savings banks and insurance companies, as well as state and local authorities, who often rely on the land register to perform their duties.

Responsibility for the permissibility of the individual call is borne by the recipient.

The special eligibility requirements in the relevant laws are set out for setting up an automated retrieval procedure. To check the admissibility, the essential details of the call procedure must be specified in writing.

It should be noted that the information of the Federal or Land Commissioner for data protection about the establishment of a retrieval process in some data protection laws is required.

General aspects:

* The cause and purpose and the parties involved in the call procedure must be defined.
* Polling permissions are to be set and controlled.
* The nature and extent of the data held must be specified.
* Locking and deletion periods for data must be defined.
* It is necessary to specify in which cases the storing body is to be informed by the collecting body.


Measures against unauthorized access:

* The retrieval of data by non-authorized persons is to be prevented by suitable precautions:
* After a specified number of failed attempts, the authorization is to be blocked.
* Passwords have to be changed at regular intervals. As far as possible, this is to be enforced by the appropriate programs.
* The retrieval of special types of personal data must be secured by a higher level of protection (possession and knowledge).
* Program-controlled test procedures should be used to check the log files.
* The nature and extent of logging must be specified.
* Randomized random checks or continuous logging should be used.
* It is necessary to specify at which point the logging will be carried out, whether at the calling point, at the storing point or at both points.
* The logging must be designed so that it can subsequently be determined on the basis of whose retrieval authorization data was retrieved.
* The reasons for the call must be logged.
* When retrieving data, it should be recorded via which port and which terminals the transmission takes place.


Grid connection:

When networking IT systems, it must be checked how the network connection of the end systems is realized. In the case of dial-up connections, for example, it is necessary to check which security measures are provided, in the case of virtual leased lines, whether closed user groups have been set up. On local networks, closed user groups should be set up to include only closed organizational units.



