#M 2.341 Planning of the SAP deployment
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Before the installation and commissioning of an SAP system, extensive planning must be carried out. Careful planning is not only necessary from a safety point of view. The business processes and processes that are to be automated and supported by the SAP system must also be recorded completely, correctly and in the required degree of detail. Only then is successful implementation possible within an SAP system. Even a planning phase of several months can be tight for large systems when replanning.

Even in the conception phase, the data protection officer and the personnel or works council should be involved. On the one hand, SAP systems usually process personal data, eg. with the module HR or as part of logging (see below). On the other hand, the necessary conversion of business processes and workflows was to be accompanied.

Planning must be carried out individually for each SAP system, as each SAP system differs in the operational scenario. Also for the test and acceptance system and the development system, which are assigned to a productive system, an individual planning should take place due to the different uses. It should be noted that the dependencies between SAP systems must also be taken into account. This applies in particular to the various developments (development, testing and acceptance, production) of an SAP system, but also to different SAP systems in a network. In this respect, an overall planning coordinated with the cooperation of the individual systems must take place.

The following is a list of SAP safety sub-concepts that have to be created with regard to the security of an SAP system in the planning phase and that must also be maintained continuously. The list is not exhaustive and must be adapted to the local circumstances and requirements, but at least the following SAP safety subconcepts are required:

* Planning the technical configuration
* Administration concept
* Concept for user administration
* authorization concept
* Resource Planning
* Planning the SAP system landscape
* Audit and logging concept
* nderungsmanagement concept
* Backup concept
* Contingency Planning Concept


In general, the concept of the existing security concepts of the authority or the company are to be considered.



## Examples 
* The account used for administration is assigned the authorization objects from the profile SAP_ALL via a profile copy.
* All authorization objects that are not required for the basic administration - these are usually authorizations that are used in applications or modules - are deleted from the profile copy.




