#M 2.458 Internet usage policy
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, IT Leader, HR Leader

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

A binding guideline must be defined for Internet use in public agencies or companies. The rights and obligations of all employees in the use of the Internet must be clearly defined therein. If necessary, there are additional guidelines for certain Internet services (eg e-mail), which of course also have to be observed. Each employee must be aware of and be reminded of these policies on a regular basis.

For this purpose, it makes sense to keep the Internet usage guideline, as well as other directives, available on the intranet. An example of a security policy for Internet usage can be found on the BSI websites under the IT Baseline Protection Tools. A policy for Internet use should take into account at least the following aspects:

* Users should be informed in a short, understandable form about the risks associated with Internet use.
* Users must have the necessary knowledge for responsible internet use. You should know how to use browsers and typical internet services correctly to avoid misuse and unsafe behavior. Of course, you should also know the organization's internal guidelines. In particular, they must be made aware of possible dangers and safety measures to be adhered to (see also M 3.77 Awareness raising for safe Internet use).
* The Directive should specify under what conditions Internet services may be used. As an example, this could mean that a translation service on the Internet may be used for publicly accessible documents, but not for confidential information. In this context, it should also be determined whether Internet services can be used exclusively for business or privately, for example. in the lunch break.
* It is also necessary to specify which applications may be used to access Internet services. It should be regulated that users are not allowed to install non-shared software for the use of internet services. This also includes browser extensions (plug-ins). The users' browsers must be preconfigured by the administrators in such a way that maximum security can be achieved without further user intervention (see also M 5.45 Secure Use of Browsers).


Information that is confidential or that may mislead the institution may not be shared through unsafe internet services. So you do not need to be set up on web servers or distributed via mailing lists. Conversely, users should also be advised that they may not download such information without authorization or otherwise obtain active information. For example, no files whose content might cause an issue should be queried on web servers. It must be determined which content is considered to be decent. The directive must also specify how to deal with information obtained from the internet. Employees must be aware that copyrights and conditions of use must be observed when using third-party information. Not all sources are trustworthy. Apart from the fact that data from untrustworthy sources could contain malicious software, misinformation may cause damage if used unchecked. Even well-prepared websites may contain misinformation. In this context, it must also be regulated under which conditions data from the home network can be transported via the Internet.

Therefore, criteria should be formulated which make it easier for employees to deduce which information may be passed on on the Internet and which not. This also includes regulations as to whether and how the data must be protected during transmission and processing.

All employees should know which internet offers and services they are allowed to use, how they can use them safely and trustworthy, and what behaviors are recommended (see also M 3.78 Proper appearance on the Internet).

For the use of Internet offers, a registration is often necessary in which the user name, e-mail address and sometimes also other information that could give a conclusion on the person and the institution may have to be stated SEN. It is to be decided whether references to the institution are undesirable and therefore z. B. No official e-mail addresses may be used for the use of Internet services. All in all, it is necessary to regulate which personal data and which information should be passed on via the institution, for example, in order to trigger no advertising campaigns or to publish information for a successful social engineering (see also M 2.313 Secure Login with Internet SERVICES).

Furthermore, the users must be informed

* which data is logged
* who are the contact persons for security problems and
* that the configuration of the browsers and other programs may not be changed on its own.


Depending on the application and the environment of use, additional aspects may have to be regulated.

In the Internet Security Directive, the available communication services should be briefly explained and all relevant regulations should be listed. Legal requirements, in particular for data protection, must of course be taken into account. The Data Protection Officer and the Staff Committee should be involved early.

It may be useful to have the user sign up to confirm that the rules governing Internet use have been taken into account and followed when using the communications services.



