#M 2.63 Setting up the access rights
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, responsible for the individual applications

If several users work with one IT system, a proper administration of access rights must ensure that users can only use the IT system according to their tasks.

It is assumed that the access and access authorizations for the individual functions have been defined by the responsible persons (see M 2.7 Assignment of access authorizations and M 2.8 assignment of access rights). Then the users of the IT system are assigned to the individual functions. The results must be documented in writing.

The administrator then has to configure the IT system so that these users have access to the IT system and can only perform their tasks with the access rights assigned to them. If the IT system does not provide access rights (eg for multi-user DOS PCs), an additional product should be used for this purpose (see, for example, M 4.41 Use of appropriate security products for security purposes) IT systems).

If the IT system allows it, then the log-on functions that can be used effectively must be activated by the administrator to safeguard evidence. This includes successful and unsuccessful login and logout processes, system error messages, unauthorized access attempts.

For the substitution case, the administrator must check in advance whether the representative is authorized by the responsible person. Only then can he set up the required access rights in case of acute substitution.



