#M 2.117 Creation of a security concept for teleworking
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, Head of Organization, Supervisors

For teleworking to take place in a secure framework, various basic conditions must be clarified. A teleworking security concept should be developed outlining the security objectives, the protection needs of teleworking information, and the risks and security measures involved.

Teleworking processes information outside of the protected operating environment. A requirement for protection of the information concerned, business processes, applications, IT systems, communication links and rooms (above all teleworking) with regard to confidentiality, integrity and availability must therefore be carried out in advance. From the protection requirements of the data to be processed at the teleworkstation, the security objectives and thus the safety requirements for the teleworkers, the teleworkers and the teleworking workplaces are derived.

In addition to an overview of the threat situation and the organizational, infrastructural and personnel security measures, measures from the following areas may make sense:

* Handling of data and valuable resources such as documents and storage media, in particular regulations for making copies and for deleting or destroying data carriers
* Secure communication (eg by encryption, electronic signature) between the institution and the teleworkstation to protect confidential data
* Authentication mechanisms
* Regulations for further network connections
* Regulations for data exchange
* data backup


In addition, various laws and regulations must be observed when designing teleworking (see M 2.113 regulations for teleworking).

The requirements, objectives and the measures to be taken for the safety of teleworking must be documented. The security concept for teleworking has to be coordinated and harmonized with the cross-border security concept of the institution. In addition, it needs to be regularly updated and adapted to changes in organization or technology.

The security measures to be implemented by the teleworkers are to be summarized in a security guideline for telework target group appropriate.



