#M 2.427 Coordination of change requests
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Change Manager

The success of the patch and change management process depends on effective communication, as the individual process steps, as defined in M 2.421 Planning the Patch and Change Management Process and M 2.422 Managing Change Requests, are often only continued can be after a response of the responsible roles exists.

In addition to the Change Advisory Board (CAB), other audiences may be involved in the reconciliation process to make a hardware or software change. Which these are depends on the size and structure of the institution. Typically, the applicant for a hardware or software change, the IT help desk, and the end-user affected by the impact of the change or a representative of the department should be involved.

Business Process Owners must be aware of the application process for hardware or software changes, what process the application is running through, and what information is provided during the application process. An essential aspect is the quality of the content of the amendment (RfCs). The necessary information is often recorded as a form or via an input mask in a special application. Which information is required and how the form is developed should therefore be determined with particular care, in coordination with the possible target groups.

In addition, the patch and change management process must ensure that, in the event of a major change, all subject managers have the ability to communicate with the application content, as opposed to, from the point of view of a target group, an undesirable change prevent.

On the other hand, the application process must not take too long. It must also be possible to speed up important changes. In doing so, it may need to be allowed to break the regular patch and change management process.



