#M 2.365 Planning the system monitoring under Windows Server 2003
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, specialist responsible, auditor

Running Windows Server 2003 generates a variety of rich event logs. These protocols serve primarily to prove and maintain a proper operation, but also the fault analysis. They are often the basis of revisions or further evaluations.

From the contents of the protocols, retention periods and overseen data protection aspects arise. The logging principles should be in line with legal requirements and should minimize the misuse of log data, and associated hazards and risks. (see M 5.9 Logging on the server, M 2.64 Control of log files, M 2.110 Data protection aspects during logging).



## Examples 
* Logs are only to be generated to the necessary extent. Their generation causes resource and storage space usage. The avoidance principle applies.
* Higher safety requirements generally require extensive monitoring.
* Logs are created for well-founded, committed purposes and are subject to this purpose.
* The monitoring and logging is subject to the interests of the organization and must be coordinated with the Staff Committee and the Data Protection Officer.
* Protocols must be protected against unauthorized access, manipulation and subsequent changes.
* Logs are to be evaluated regularly and sufficiently promptly.
* For the correct evaluation of protocols, exact and synchronous time entries as well as defined formats, interfaces and procedures are required.
* When evaluating protocols, the principles of module B 1.8 Handling safety precautions should be taken into account.
* Logs are to be deleted after exceeding the maximum storage period.




