#M 2.455 Defining a security policy for groupware
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

As with any client-server system used in a government or enterprise, an appropriate security policy must be established for the use of groupware servers and clients, which describes the rules that apply to the groupware Administrators and the groupware users.

* The security policy for groupware systems must conform to the applicable general security guidelines of the company or the authorities.
* It must be specified when a communication protection, eg. B.f r network or e-mail communication, must be made (z. B., When accessing via the Internet). It should also be determined which mechanisms should be used for this purpose.
* The security policy must be distributed to all persons directly and indirectly affected by the institution. It should best be presented as part of an internal training course. The security policy needs to be updated regularly. Changes must be communicated to the persons concerned in a suitable manner.


It makes sense to separate the groupware security policy into one part for users and one part for administrators in order to make them more comprehensible. For example, in the security policy for groupware for users, specify

* which users should access which groupware servers and which users should not access which groupware servers (exclusion list),
* which users with which rights can access which groupware databases,
* which information can be passed on to which communication partner,
* How to secure the transmitted information (depending on its protection needs), above all, it should be regulated when transferred files must be encrypted or digitally signed.


The groupware security policy for administrators should include:

* how to configure the groupware components by the administrators to provide adequate security,
* which other servers can access a groupware server and
* from where you can access a groupware server.


In the groupware security policy, for example, when using Microsoft Exchange, it would be necessary to specify which users with which rights should be able to access which Exchange objects. Because Microsoft Exchange systems integrate heavily with the Windows environment, specifically Active Directory, the Windows security policy must be considered.



