#M 2.131 Distribution of administrative activities in database systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Administrators are to be determined in order to allow an orderly operation of database systems. In addition to general administration work, these are responsible in particular for user administration, including the administration of access rights. In addition, they are responsible for the security concerns of the database systems under management.

Apart from the measures mentioned in M .2.26 Appointment of an Administrator and a Representative and M 3.10 Selection of a Trusted Administrator and Representative, the following must be considered in particular for database systems.

Basically, two different administrator roles should be distinguished:

* the technically comprehensive administration of the database software and
* Administration of application-specific issues.


These two tasks should be performed by different people in order to separate the application-specific and cross-functional administration of a database.

The basic operation of the DBMS, the execution of data backups or the archiving of data, for example, are part of the interdisciplinary database administration.

In application-specific administration, on the other hand, the requirements of the individual applications are processed in the database. This can z. B. managing the associated database objects, assisting users with problems or queries, or managing the corresponding database identifiers. The latter is, however, only possible if the administration of the database identifiers per application is supported by the database software via a corresponding authorization concept, ie can be separated from the cross-functional authorizations.

The interdisciplinary administrator sets up the administrator IDs with the appropriate authorizations for the application-specific requirements. In particular, this includes the right to create databases. The assignment of rights for the individual users should, however, be carried out separately for each application-specific database by the respective application-specific administrator.



