#M 2.394 Testing electrical systems
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: building services

After installation and then at regular intervals, electrical installations must be checked.

The initial test is described in the standard DIN VDE 0100-610 Low-voltage installations - Part 6-61: Tests - Initial tests (German version of IEC 60364-6-61). The test must be carried out by a state recognized expert. The inspector inspects the installations and their execution on site and carries out test measurements. This checks whether

* all electrical systems have been built according to the manufacturer's specifications,
* Firebox were installed correctly,
* a correct selection of conductors has been made with regard to current carrying capacity, selection and adjustment of the protective equipment and compliance with the planning,
* Circuit diagrams are complete and correct,
* Warnings were attached,
* all conductors are properly connected,
* the continuity of the protective conductor is given.


In addition, the initial test includes measuring the insulation resistance of the entire system and checking and proving the protection by automatic switch-off.

The result of the initial test is the determination of the operational safety and effectiveness of the electrotechnical systems.

Electrical systems must also be regularly checked for operational safety by an expert. In addition to the primary objective of accident prevention, above all the impact of changes in use (eg due to a sharp increase in the number of consumers) must be checked and documented. The test reports with the results of the tests and measurements should be archived.



