#M 2.81 Preselection of a suitable standard software product
Responsible for Initiation: Procurement

Responsible for implementation: Procurement, Department, IT

The preselection of a standard software product is based on the catalog of requirements established by the specialist department and the IT department. In the first instance, the body responsible for the pre-selection should carry out a market analysis in which a tabular overview of the market should be drawn up on the basis of the catalog of requirements. In this table statements for the products in question should be made regarding the points stated in the catalog of requirements.

The market overview should be developed by the IT department, it may be based on product descriptions, manufacturer statements, trade journals or retailer outlets. Alternatively, a tender is possible and partially predetermined. The catalog of requirements forms the basis of a tender so that a comparable market overview can be drawn up based on the incoming offers.

Afterwards, the products covered in the market survey must be evaluated with regard to the requirements of the catalog of requirements. For this, the evaluation scale developed in M 2.80 Creation of a requirement catalog for standard software can be used. On the basis of the available information it is determined which of the required properties of the product are available. If the product lacks necessary properties, it is discarded. By evaluating the importance of the individual properties of each product, a sum can be determined. Based on these totals, a hit list can now be created for the products from the preselection.



## Examples 
* References If the manufacturer or distributor can specify reference installations for his product, the experiences made there can be questioned and included in the product assessment. If there are external test results or quality statements for the software product to be tested (eg test results in professional journals, conformity tests according to proprietary standards, tests and certificates according to relevant standards and standards such as ISO 12119), these results should also be taken into account in the pre-selection.
* Dissemination of the product In the case of a high penetration, the individual user has little or no influence on the manufacturer of the product when it comes to troubleshooting or implementing certain functionalities. But he can assume that the product will be developed further. Often there are external tests commissioned by the manufacturer or carried out by specialist journals. For high-penetration products, more is generally known about vulnerabilities, so that the user can assume that the significant vulnerabilities are already known, or that the knowledge of weak points is spread quickly and he can remedy after the disclosure. With a low penetration, a user can have more influence on the manufacturer. External tests are generally not available because they are too expensive and too expensive for small manufacturer products. Low penetration products usually do not contain more or less vulnerabilities than those with high penetration. Disadvantage here is that they may not be known so quickly and can be resolved. But if they are security holes, they probably are not known to potential attackers or are not worthwhile targets.
* Cost-effectiveness / cost of purchase, operation, maintenance, training Before deciding on a product, the question should always be whether the cost of the product is commensurate with the benefits that can be achieved. In addition, all follow-up costs for operation, maintenance and training are to be included in the direct acquisition costs. For this purpose z. For example, it may be necessary to clarify whether the existing hardware platform needs to be upgraded or whether training is required for installation and operation.




