#M 2.461 Planning the secure use of Bluetooth
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Bluetooth can be used in many scenarios based on the many available application profiles. Therefore, in advance some planning in the institution is necessary to operate Bluetooth safely. In general, it has to be determined which strategy the institution has with regard to Bluetooth and to what extent the individual functions and application profiles should be used.

In general, two types of Bluetooth devices must be distinguished:

* Devices with Bluetooth functionalities (in short: Bluetooth devices), for example mobile phones, smartphones, laptop etc.
* Peripheral devices with Bluetooth functionalities (in short: Bluetooth peripheral devices), eg mouse, keyboard, headset, etc.


Bluetooth devices usually have all the features of the Bluetooth specifications, and the security features implemented can be used freely. Bluetooth peripherals extend Bluetooth devices with their special features. As a rule, however, you can only use the existing security functions to a limited extent. Bluetooth peripheral devices usually use individual application profiles of the Bluetooth devices.

The purpose of the Bluetooth peripheral devices is usually determined by the type. Thus, a Bluetooth headset exclusively for voice transmission and a Bluetooth keyboard can only be used as input device. The terminals in turn have a variety of uses. For example, a mobile phone can offer modem functionality to a laptop or data can be exchanged between two Bluetooth devices.

First, it must be considered for which purposes within and outside the institution Bluetooth devices should be used. The next step is to define in which areas and under which conditions Bluetooth may be used and in which not. For example, in areas of the institution where mission-critical information is being processed, Bluetooth input devices should not be used, as they could be used to record keystrokes via keylogging attacks. Therefore, it must be clearly defined which Bluetooth features may be used in which areas of the institution. Even if Bluetooth usage is prohibited within certain limits, devices with Bluetooth interfaces can still be located within these ranges. To prevent them from being addressed externally, either deactivate the Bluetooth interfaces of these devices or take along the devices with Bluetooth interfaces, such as Bluetooth. To ban mobile phones or PDAs in these areas.

In addition, it must be decided which security functions are to be used fundamentally to secure the Bluetooth devices and the communication between two Bluetooth devices (see M 3.79 Introduction to basic concepts and functionalities of Bluetooth). This decision is the basis for the secure configuration and safe operation of the Bluetooth devices (see M 4.362 Secure Configuration of Bluetooth and M 4.363 Secure Operation of Bluetooth Devices). Likewise, there must be rules for users that describe what needs to be considered when using Bluetooth devices and their security features.

The framework for Bluetooth usage must be anchored in the institution's security policy.

In order to be able to operate Bluetooth and the connected devices safely, the following points are essential:

* The operation and technology of the wireless communication systems used must be fully understood by the person responsible for the operation.
* The safety of the technology used should be evaluated on a regular basis. Likewise, the security settings of the devices used (eg mobile phones, laptops, PDAs) should be checked regularly. Security-relevant patches and updates must be uploaded as soon as possible.
* The framework for Bluetooth usage must be anchored in the institution's security policy.
* It must be specified whether the Bluetooth usage should be approved or prohibited. For security reasons, for example, it may be sensible to prohibit the use of Bluetooth in official IT devices in general or in certain areas.
* In order to protect the transmitted data, specifications must be worked out which, among other things, deal with the selection of adequate encryption and authentication methods, their configuration and key management.




## Examples 
* Under what conditions Bluetooth components can be used,
* How to properly install and use Bluetooth devices
* What steps to take in the event of (suspected) compromise of Bluetooth components, especially who to notify.




