#M 2.496 Regulated commissioning of a logging server
Responsible for Initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

On a logging server, log data is collected, processed, stored and archived. These data may include, but are not limited to, IP addresses, usernames, and names of IT systems. Therefore, it is important to ensure that hard drives and other storage media no longer contain valuable information when the log server is decommissioned. All media must be securely erased, regardless of whether they are distributed, repaired or rejected.

In the case of a repair, it is not sufficient to just format the hard disks or to use deletion functions of the operating system. They must be overridden with appropriate deletion programs so that the data can not be recovered using special methods. Further information on how to safely delete and destroy data carriers can be found under M 2.167 Selecting appropriate methods for deleting or destroying data.

If a logging server is discarded, it is recommended to mechanically destroy (shred) the storage media in addition to the deletion. If the storage media can not be destroyed promptly, they must be protected from unauthorized access until they are destroyed. Magnetic storage media can also be electromagnetically quenched by means of a degausser.

If the data carriers are deleted by third parties, the order must, inter alia, be awarded according to data protection requirements and a contract data processing contract must be concluded.



