#M 2.336 Assumption of overall responsibility for information security by the management level
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: administration / company management

The management and control of a company or a public authority and the associated management tasks entail a high level of responsibility. This responsibility not only relates to the degree of goal achievement, such as business success, but also to the early detection and minimization of potential risks to operations. These include, among other risks, those resulting from inadequate information security.

It is a complex task to ensure an adequate level of security over the long term. This requires a systematic approach, a continuous and targeted security process. It is up to the management level of each institution to initiate, steer and control this process. For smaller institutions, this is often done personally by a member of the management level. In medium and large institutions, the information security task is delegated to a dedicated person, the IT security officer. Depending on the size and type of institution, additional persons will be entrusted with security tasks that they will perform exclusively or in addition to other tasks. For this purpose, it makes sense to set up a suitable organizational structure to adequately control the various subtasks in the area of ??security. The overall responsibility always remains with the management level, regardless of how many people have been delegated security tasks.

The management should be regularly informed about possible risks and consequences due to a lack of information security. It is advisable to draw the attention of management to the following points (see also M 3.44 Information security management):

* Presentation of the security risks and the associated effects and costs
* Impact of security incidents on critical business processes
* Legal and contractual safety requirements
* Overview of standard information security practices for the industry


Even though the management level is responsible for achieving the security objectives, the security process must be supported and co-designed by all employees in an institution. Therefore, the following principles should be adhered to:

* Taking overall responsibility for information securityThe information security initiative is initiated by the authorities or management. The information security task is actively supported by the authorities or the company management.
* Integrating information securityInformation security must be integrated into all processes and projects. In addition, all parties involved in the security process must be sufficiently informed and motivated to comply with them.
* Defining responsibilitiesThe authorities or management designate the information security officers and equip them with the required competences and resources.
* Steering and monitoringThe management level must actively initiate, steer and monitor the security process. To do this, management must be aware of the effects of security incidents on business, set security objectives and create framework conditions that will make it possible to achieve these goals.
* Set reasonable goals Absolute information security does not exist. Therefore, it is important to set the security goals so that they are achievable on the one hand with a reasonable effort (staff, time, financial resources) and on the other hand the security risks are reduced to an acceptable level.
* Exemplary functionThe management level also assumes an exemplary function in the area of ??information security. This includes, among other things, that the management level also complies with all given safety rules.
* Continuous improvement The adequacy and effectiveness of all elements of safety management must be constantly monitored. Identified weaknesses and possibilities for improvement must be rectified or implemented consistently. It is also important to recognize future developments, changed framework conditions and potential dangers early on.
* Communication and KnowledgeManagement and the IS management team must motivate employees and ensure adequate training and awareness-raising activities. Above all, employees must be informed about the meaning and purpose of both technical security measures and organizational requirements. Users should be involved in the implementation planning of actions. In this way, they can contribute ideas and assess the practicability of safety measures.




