#M 2.385 Suitable selection of WLAN components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

To select WLAN devices, it must first be questioned whether these fit into the WLAN security strategy. WLAN components are available in a wide variety of variants and device classes. These differ not only in their scope of performance, but also in the security mechanisms and ease of use. In addition, they pose different requirements for hardware and software components in the application environment.

With the variety of different WLAN components compatibility problems are obvious. Important criteria for the selection of WLAN components are therefore security and compatibility.

If it has been decided to establish a WLAN within an institution, a list of requirements should be drawn up to assess the products available on the market. Based on the evaluation, the products to be procured should then be selected. Practice shows that due to various application requirements, it may make sense to select several device types for procurement. The variety of devices should be limited to simplify the support. An important criterion in the procurement of WLAN components is the compatibility with already existing devices.

When purchasing, data throughput and range should also be questioned. With external antennas, the range can also be improved for WLAN components. However, it must be ensured here that a WLAN does not radiate into areas where it should not or is not allowed to be used due to the longer range.

The procurement of access points should, among other things, be checked

* how many channels are adjustable
* whether the SSID is adjustable,
* whether the SSID beacon can be deactivated,
* which cryptographic procedures are implemented (WEP, WPA, WPA2 and others),
* whether the authentication of both the open system and the shared key mode can be specified (the latter is unfortunately not self-evident),
* how IEEE 802.1X EAP methods are supported
* whether an administration over secure communication paths, z. As SSH or SSL, is possible and insecure protocols such. B. HTTP or Telnet, can be switched off,
* whether IP or MAC address filtering is possible,
* obACLs can be set up for access via the WLAN, a connected LAN or for the configuration of access points.
* whether a packet filter is integrated,
* whether further mechanisms for access control are available (filtering according to various criteria such as ports, applications, URLs, etc.),
* whether tunnel protocols such as PPTP or IPsec are supported.


It should definitely be tested whether the implemented cryptographic methods are not only named the same as with other WLAN components used, but also work together correctly.

The correct configuration of the access points is an essential security aspect. With some access points, wireless configuration is possible directly via the WLAN, which is advertised as comfortable by the manufacturers. However, this also involves security problems, so it should be waived, if such a functionality is available, it should at least be switched off (and in principle be turned off during operation). Many access points also offer the convenience of being connected to a management console via a serial or USB interface. Via HTTP or Telnet they can then be administered via the Intranet or Internet. For this a reasonable protection of the remote access is necessary, for example the protection of the communication over SSL or SSH. Remote access via the Internet should generally be critically scrutinized.

Administration access to WLAN components should only be available to authorized persons. Therefore, it should be questioned how this is secured. If this is done via passwords, these must be selected as complex as possible (see M 2.11 Control of Password Usage). It is better to use strong authentication methods for administration accesses (see also M 4.133 Suitable Selection of Authentication Mechanisms).

The implementation of the required security rules for access points is often very time-consuming. In addition to the key management, this mainly includes the necessary settings of various parameters and options. For some access points, there are now solutions to control them within an institution via a central server. Unfortunately, these are still proprietary solutions and are only supported by the WLAN components of the respective manufacturer.

Since it can be expensive, especially with network coupling elements, until the network administrator has found out the correct configuration, it should be possible to save them.

The online help and documentation of WLAN components should be formulated linguistically so that future users or administrators can understand the technical descriptions.



## Examples 
* The authentication method used in the WLAN must be supported by both the clients and the access points, as well as the authentication server.
* If authentication in the WLAN complies with IEEE 802.1X, the access points must support the EAP authentication method and correctly process the information communicated within IEEE 802.1X.
* It must be checked whether the authentication server can dispense with its own database for user authentication and, instead, can pass on the authentication requests to a central user database using secure query methods.




