#M 2.537 Planning for secure migration to a cloud service
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer

If an institution decides to use cloud services, extensive planning measures must be carried out in order to be able to ensure its secure operation on an ongoing basis. Particular attention should be paid to the planning of the secure migration and integration of cloud services. The term migration always refers to either the technical change from one system to another or the change of the cloud service provider.

The planning of the secure integration of cloud services (see measure M 2.538 Planning for secure integration of cloud services) focuses on various aspects that should be considered beyond the considerations of migration planning.

As part of the planning for the secure migration to a cloud service, the institution must create a migration concept that is to be designed as part of the security concept for cloud use (see measure M 2.539 Creation of a security concept for cloud use ). In doing so, different cloud-specific features and requirements have to be taken into account and presented accordingly in the migration concept.



## Examples 
* Is the migration concept for the defined cloud service designed as part of the security concept for cloud use?
* Are organizational regulations defined with regard to migration?
* Have existing operating processes been identified and adapted with regard to cloud usage?
* Has your own IT been sufficiently taken into account in the migration process?
* Has an appropriate training requirement been identified for employees?




