#M 2.374 Scope of encryption of VoIP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

If an attacker succeeds in gaining access to an internal network at a suitable location, he can log all network communication in the LAN. If the VoIP payload is not encrypted, the attacker can read along all the information. For example, by evaluating the signaling information, he can determine who has been phoning with whom for how long. However, an attacker could also evaluate the messages that are exchanged via the media transport protocol and thereby hear the phone calls. Therefore, it should be considered that the VoIP payload is encrypted. Encryption, however, must be supported by all participating telecommunications systems.

When considering whether the communication is to be encrypted over VoIP, it is frequently expedient to distinguish between internal and external communication.

For VoIP calls within a LAN, it can be considered whether encryption can be dispensed with. It must be ensured that this information can not be accessed via an insecure network area, such as a WLAN, through an external device. In order to protect the internal calls from being accessed by interception, the use of encryption may make sense. For this, the operation of the VoIP terminals as VPN endpoints or the use of an encrypted media transport protocol, such as SRTP, conceivable.

If all deployed VoIP devices support encrypted signaling protocols, it is recommended that you use them. This prevents, inter alia, that an attacker read passwords and log on as another user, for example, the SIP registrar.

If packets with VoIP content leave the secured LAN, they must be protected by appropriate procedures. To protect VoIP communication, select one or more of the following:

* Use encrypting media transport protocols such as Secure Realtime Transport Protocol (SRTP).
* Encryption of the signaling protocols, for example with TLS (Transport Layer Security)
* Virtual Private Networks (VPNs): By using VPN gateways, information can be encrypted between remote LANs. Individual devices can be operated as VPN endpoints. This has the further advantage that an interior also does not have access to the information. Without a direct support of encrypting signaling and media transport protocols, a protocol-independent encryption can be used in this way. If, for example, for communication between different properties, several VoIP switching units (middleware) are required , these should also be put together in a VPN, if no other encryption mechanisms can be activated. If the connection is not adequately protected, for example, between several middleware components in different properties, an attacker could possibly cease all calls between the properties. If the middleware is operated on an IT system, a VoIP-protocol-independent VPN support can usually be installed afterwards.
* Encryption of the radio network: An unsecured radio network within an institution could also be accessed from outside the property. If the VoIP call participants are connected to each other via a WLAN, qualified protection for the WLAN, such as WPA2, must be used (see also block B 4.6 WLAN). Since this encryption is restricted to the wireless network, it should be noted that the information is transmitted unprotected in the rest of the LAN. If the VoIP information does not leave the LAN through other means, the same conditions apply to a qualified encryption as to internal communication, which may not be encrypted.


If a call to a telephone subscriber is to be established via a public telephone network, the connection between the VoIP terminal and the gateway used between the IP network and the public circuit-switched network can optionally be established with VPNs or encrypted signaling and media transport protocols are protected. Since only a few phones provide protection mechanisms for circuit-switching networks and their use depends on the respective receiver, encryption between the VoIP gateway and the call partner is usually unrealistic.

If encrypted communication, for example with external call partners, is not possible, users must be informed and sensitized. Confidential calls should not be made over the phone if they are not encrypted.

When procuring VoIP components, care must be taken that these encrypting signaling and media transport protocols such. TLS and SRTP support (see M 2.375 Suitable selection of VoIP systems).



