#M 2.396 Specifications for documentation and labeling of IT cabling
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

If a renewal or modernization of the IT cabling is planned, it is to be agreed between the client and the contractors (network planners, suppliers and installers) how to carry out the documentation of the IT cabling. The client must ensure that he has an internal and an external documentation of the wiring during commissioning.

The internal documentation covers all records relating to the installation and operation of IT cabling. For internal documentation, it should be prepared and maintained in such a comprehensive manner that the operation and the future development are best supported.

The external documentation is the label of terminals to support the operation. In the interests of protection against sabotage and other unwarranted interference, the externally visible documentation of the wiring (eg the inscription of the power sockets and cable ends) should be as economical as possible. Here, it is important to give as little information as possible to a potential attacker, but at the same time to provide IT personnel with the necessary markings required for proper and traceable patching and networking work.

For medium and large cabling projects, the use of suitable documentation software is mandatory. For this reason, specifications about file formats and thus about the program and version of the software to be used must already be made in the planning phase. This ensures that the contractor can provide his documentation in a form that the client can immediately use. Similarly, naming convention requirements should be made for the files themselves as well as for elements and structures described in the files. The version of a file should as far as possible already be recognized by the file name, for example by the fact that each file name begins with a date of the form YYYYYMMDD.

The naming conventions and labeling in the documents must also be clearly defined. For example, it is to be agreed how different classes of routed copper cables are to be distinguished in drawings (example: L123-cu6a = line 123, copper, CAT6a).

A problem often arises with room numbers: the architect usually awards these in the planning phase. These room numbers are also used in the planning and execution of the IT cabling. If, after taking over the building, the user introduces a different system for the marking and inscription of rooms, this can lead to ambiguity, impairment of the operation or other safety problems.

For example, inconsistencies in room numbering can lead to cable connections to wrong rooms and thus between the wrong IT systems.

The first step in documenting the IT cabling is the planning and installation documentation. To document is first the planned topography of the network. In the building and spatial planning, the planned course of the routes of cables and routes and the position of the junction boxes are drawn in the first place. The installer then has to provide documents for the execution of the cabling work.

The documentation of the IT cabling consists of:

* Pathway and use in the building section,
* Route, routing and location of junction boxes per floor,
* Room plans for all technical rooms of the IT cabling with cabinet position and possibly feeding points of foreign networks,
* Cabinet view plans with cabinet installations and patch plans,
* Conformity Proofs  of the contractually compliant design,
* Delivery information, measurement protocols and acceptance tests.


This documentation is the basis and essential part of the acceptance of the product by the client.

For the later network operation, it is advisable to prepare separate documents for the actual description of the network and for updating. The close connection to the construction planning and to typical programs and data formats of construction planning (CAD) are more appropriate in the construction phase.

During operation, it is often more appropriate to emphasize logical and IT-specific structures of the IT network in the documentation and to subordinate structural aspects. For this purpose, IT-related software tools are more appropriate. Employees are usually more familiar with operating such programs than with using CAD software.



