#M 2.78 Secure operation of a security gateway
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

For a secure operation of a security gateway, the implemented security measures must be regularly checked for correct compliance. In particular, the organizational arrangements made for the operation of the security gateway must be regularly / sporadically checked for compliance. It should be regularly checked whether new accesses were created bypassing the security gateway.

Regular tests must also ensure that all filter rules have been correctly implemented. It should be tested that only the services allowed in the policy of the security gateway are allowed.

If subsequent policy changes are required, these must be strictly controlled and, in particular, checked for side effects.

The demands made on the procurement of packet filters or on application-level gateways must be implemented. They are to be regularly updated and checked for completeness.

The default setting of the filter rules and the arrangement of the components must ensure that all connections that are not explicitly allowed are blocked. This must also apply in the event of a complete failure of the components of the security gateway.

It is necessary to realize the rule Everything that is not expressly allowed is forbidden. Thus z. B. a user who does not have an entry in an access list will not be able to use Internet services.

In addition, the following points should be noted:

* All devices (computers, routers or appliances) that are part of a security gateway must be configured with the utmost care and security.
* Only programs that are necessary for the functionality of the security gateway may be present on the components used. The use of these programs must be fully documented and justified. For example, services should be disabled and drivers removed that are not needed. Drivers should also be removed from the kernel if possible. The retention of software must be documented and justified.


* To prevent the authentication information from being read or changed, administrators and auditors need only access the security gateway via a trusted path, such as directly from the console, through an encrypted connection, or through a separate connection Administration network (out-of-band management).


* It must be ensured that the operating systems and programs on the components of the security gateway are always securely patched. The system administrators must therefore regularly inform themselves about known software vulnerabilities and install safety-critical patches in a particularly timely manner (see also M 2.35 Obtaining information about system vulnerabilities, M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates, as well as M 4.177 ensuring the integrity and authenticity of software packages).


* Integrity tests of the software used must be carried out at regular intervals (see also M 4.93 Regular integrity check). In the event of an error, the security gateway must be switched off.
* The security gateway must be tested for its behavior in a system crash. In particular, an automatic restart should not be possible and it must be possible to store the access lists on a write-protected medium. The access lists are the essential data for the operation of the security gateway. Therefore, it must be ensured by appropriate protection that even then no old or faulty access lists are used if an attacker succeeds in causing a restart of the security gateway or of individual components.
* In the event of a failure of the security gateway, it must be ensured that no network connections can be established from or to the network to be protected during this time (see also M 2.302 Security gateways and high availability and M 6.94 Emergency preparedness for security gateways).
* When restoring backed-up data, care must be taken to ensure that files relevant to the secure operation of the security gateway, such as access lists, password files or filter rules, are up-to-date.




