#M 2.366 Use security templates on Windows Server 2003
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Security-related settings can be set in Windows Server 2003 through security templates. Since most areas of the system have security-related issues, templates are an important and powerful administration tool. With their help, settings can be standardized and managed centrally. The most important tools for templates are Security Configuration Editor (SCE) and Security Configuration Wizard (SCW), which are included in Service Pack 1 and later. A brief description can be found under the IT Baseline Protection Tools (see Using Security Templates in Windows Server 2003 in Windows Server 2003 Tools).

In contrast to administrative templates (M 2.368 Handling administrative templates on Windows starting with Server 2003), security templates contain specific values ??for all settings options. Enabling a security template in the local security policy immediately changes the system configuration. All template settings are activated immediately and configured with the specific value.

The template type of Windows NT 4.0 (files with the extension .pol) should no longer be applied to Windows Server 2003. Existing security templates of this type should be rebuilt as GPOs. The Gpolmig.exe program from the Windows Server 2003 Resource Kit can reduce the overhead of doing this.



## Examples 
* Local Security Policy (under Start | Control Panel | Administrative Tools): Performs security settings directly on the local server
* Security Templates: creates and manages security templates (.inf files) does not make any configuration changes to the server
* Security configuration and analysis: Modeling security settings and analyzing the system using an intermediary configuration database, exporting and importing security templates, verifying policy compliance, enabling a modeled security configuration




