#M 2.566 Safe disposal of an embedded system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Before an embedded system is discarded, all data permanently stored on data media must be deleted in such a way that they can not subsequently be readably restored and abused by special software. If it is not possible to safely delete the data, the data carriers concerned must be destroyed safely. In principle, the recommendations in M 2.167 apply to selecting appropriate methods for deleting or destroying data B 1.9 Hardware and software management and B 1.15 Deleting and destroying data:

* For magnetic hard disks, the entire volume must be written with a random number pattern and the process verified.
* In volatile semiconductor memories, z. B.SRAModerDRAM, the power supply must be switched off and, if present, the buffer battery removed beforehand.
* In volatile semiconductor memories, z. B.SRAModerDRAM, with very high protection requirements, the memory with any data is to be overwritten once before the power is turned off.
* For non-volatile semiconductor memories, eg. B.EPROM, EEPROM or Flash, the entire memory area must be overwritten three times with suitable software if the protection requirements are high.


Depending on the nature of the embedded system and the need for protection of the stored data, further action is required:

* Hard disks are to be physically destroyed using a process approved for the protection requirement.
* Hard disks with semiconductor memory, SSD or hybrid forms, are physically destructive.
* If architecture or hardware programming is a valuable piece of information, these components should be destroyed physically.
* Chip cards are physically destroyed. You can B. crushed or melted. The DIN66399 Bore and Data Technology Destruction of Data Carriers contains more requirements for devices destroying information carriers. This standard distinguishes between seven levels of protection for destruction and takes into account the degree of protection of information, the physical properties of information carriers and the technical procedures used.


Embedded systems, on which sensitive information is stored, should have an emergency capability in case of high protection requirements. When this function is initiated, all classified information must be reliably removed. If the system needs physical destruction, Thermit reaction may be provided as described in M 4.487 Tamper Protection (Detection, Prevention, Defense) for Embedded Systems.

If a centrally triggered, automatic emergency shutdown procedure of the surrounding system, eg. B.Central Clear, Crash Clear, the emergency function of the embedded system must be integrable. For this purpose, appropriate interfaces must be provided.

If necessary, an automatic erasure that actively deletes or destroys all sensitive data can also be implemented.

If data carriers are deleted or destroyed on separated embedded systems and if hardware is destroyed, this must be documented.



