#M 2.424 Security Policy for Using Patch and Change Management Tools
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation:  change manager, IT security officer

A patch and change management tool plays a key role as the central instance for implementing the patch and change management process and software distribution for the safe and orderly operation of the institution.

Patch and change management must be conducted with reasonable organizational and technical effort. Among other things, the protection requirements of the business processes and thus the protection requirements of the data and systems must be taken into account. A specific security policy for patch and change management should be created. This must be aligned with the security concept of the institution and the security guidelines derived from it.

Aspects for which guidelines must be formulated in this security policy are:



## Examples 
* For the scalability of the server application of the tool, requirements for the use of replication, load distribution and the possibility of using technical redundancies must be formulated in advance.
* For a secure network connection to external sources of patches or changes, eg. For example, appropriate regulations must be established for manufacturers. For example, the direct connection of the clients to the manufacturers of the software used could be redirected to a proxy by means of appropriate rules on the security gateway.
* To ensure that the integrity and authenticity of patches and changes can be reliably verified, suitable concepts and components must be defined.
* Requirements for providing the documentation for operation, emergency, and restart of the patch and change management tool must be formulated. The requirements include, among other things, that the documentation must always be up to date. Furthermore, it should be defined where the documentation must be stored and how many copies of the documentation must be available.




