#M 2.446 Distribution of administration activities for virtualization servers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

For virtualization infrastructures, in addition to the usual roles and administration activities (see M 2.38 Allocation of Administrative Activities), additional administrative tasks in data center operations are added.

The peculiarity of the role of administrators in a virtual infrastructure is that they potentially have a very large authority over the virtual IT systems that operate in the virtual infrastructure. This implies that they

* have the control over the emulated hardware equipment,
* connect the virtual IT systems with networks,
* can allocate storage resources from the storage network to the virtual IT systems and
* mostly access to the consoles of virtual IT systems


to have.

A division of the administrator role allows the mutual control of the different groups of administrators in a work centered data center operation.

For example, some virtualization products, such as. For example, Citrix XENCenter, Microsoft System Center Virtual Machine Manager, or VMware vSphere, administrator roles that assign a range of rights in the virtual infrastructure to specific user groups. For example, certain user groups may be prevented from exporting virtual IT systems from the virtual infrastructure. In addition, you can grant or revoke privileges to turn virtual IT systems on or off or to create snapshots.

It has to be checked, whether a split of the administrator roles is necessary for the virtual IT systems to be operated. This may be the case, for example, if a particular group of administrators should not be authorized to assign networks for a virtual IT system with increased protection needs for confidentiality.

If the distribution of administrator roles is required, the definition of appropriate administrator roles for the virtualization infrastructure must be used. Some virtualization products do not offer such a possibility. In this case, it must be checked whether a distribution of the administrator roles is purely organizational, ie z. sufficient by means of a directive.



