#M 2.337 Integrate information security into organizational processes and processes
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer

Information security must be integrated into all business processes. It must be ensured that not only new projects but also current applications have all the necessary safety aspects taken into account.

Especially in larger institutions there is often a cross-risk management system in place. Operational risks, including IT risks, are an integral part of risk management. Information security is also a fundamental and cross-process requirement for institutions. Therefore, the methods of managing information security risks should be aligned with established risk management methods. It is important that work instructions or service agreements from different areas of an institution should not contradict each other.

The BSI Standard 100-2 on the IT-Grundschutz Approach and the building blocks of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs contain detailed and concrete recommendations for the organization of the security process. In the following, for example, important cross-border security measures are briefly mentioned:



## Examples 
* Will the IT security officer or the information security management team be sufficiently involved in security-related decisions?
* Is it regulated that security management is integrated into all processes and developments that are relevant to information security?
* Are responsibilities and competences clearly defined and assigned within the organizational structures for information security?
* Are there effective substitution arrangements for all important functions of the IS organization?




