#M 2.573 Adherence to a safe approach to software development
Responsible for initiation: Head of Development

Responsible for implementation: Developer, Head of Development

The software development implementation process must be designed to be safe, for example, to detect and avoid the software being accidentally altered or intentionally manipulated. In particular safety-critical software components, eg. Authentication systems must be tested and tested by several developers during development, eg. through rigorous application of the four-eyes principle to ensure information security for the software to be developed.

It is a version control for the developed software to ensure. In particular, the documentation of the differences between versions and the possibility of returning to previous versions are required (see S 6.32 Regular backup).

To ensure that the integrity of the software can not be compromised, regular code reviews are required. These must be done by independent third parties or at least by developers who have not written the code themselves. It must be checked whether the program code contains all the desired functions and at the same time does not contain any additional or unwanted functions.

If external libraries or code from external sources are integrated into the development environment, these should be checked for weak points and possible conflicts with other components already in use. This should be done by means of external sources of information (eg online directories with known error messages and security gaps) and by own tests always in coordination with the development manager.



