#M 2.17 Access control and control
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: Head of building services, employees, planners

Access to parts and rooms requiring protection must be regulated and checked (see M 2.6 Assignment of access authorizations). The measures range from a simple key assignment to complex identification systems with individual separation, whereby the use of a mechanical key and lock is also an access control. For access control and control it is necessary that

* the scope of the scheme is clearly determined,
* the number of persons entitled to access is reduced to a minimum; these persons should know each other's authority in order to recognize unauthorized persons as such,
* the admission of other persons (visitors) takes place only after prior examination of the necessity,
* issued access authorizations.


The granting of rights alone is not sufficient if their compliance is not controlled. The design of control mechanisms should be based on the principle that simple and workable solutions are often as efficient as complex technology. Examples of this are:

* Information and sensitization of the beneficiaries,
* Announcement of permission changes,
* visibly carrying house IDs, supplemented by the issue of visitor badges,
* Accompanying visitors,
* Behavioral rules when authorization overruns and
* Restriction of unrestricted access for non-authorized persons (eg door with blind knob, lock for authorized persons with key, bell for visitors).


In access control, various structural, organizational and personnel measures are required. Their interaction should be governed by an access control concept that defines the general guidelines for perimeter, building and equipment protection. These include:

* Determination of safety zones Areas to be protected may be, for example, land, buildings, server rooms, premises with peripheral equipment, archives, communication equipment and building services. Since these areas often have very different security requirements, it may be useful to divide them into different security zones (see M 1.79 Formation of security zones).
* Assignment of access authorizations (see M 2.6 Assignment of access authorizations)
* Designation of the person responsible for access control This assigns the access rights to the individual persons according to the principles defined in the security policy.
* Definition of time dependencies It is to be determined whether time restrictions of the access rights are required. Such time dependencies may be: access only during working hours, access once a day or temporary access until a fixed date.
* Defining the evidence Here you must determine which data is logged when entering and leaving a protected area. This requires a careful balance between the security interests of the system operator and the protection interests of the private sphere of the individual.
* Handling of exceptional situationsAlso in exceptional situations, no unauthorized persons should be allowed to enter the building or the properties. However, the highest priority must be to ensure that all persons can leave the endangered zones as quickly as possible in case of fire.


In addition, the installation of badge readers of various qualities, of locks and separating devices can be useful. For key management, see M 2.14 Key Management.

To implement a more comprehensive concept, to maintain flexibility in use and to ensure transparency and verifiability, the use of an IT-supported system for authorization management is recommended (see M 1.80 Access Control System and Authorization Management).

The access control terminals must be protected against tampering. For this purpose, they must be placed in such a way that confidentiality when entering data is ensured. In addition, all units required for data entry should be combined in one device, such as a keyboard for PIN input.

If not all units are in one device, the data transfer between them must be encrypted. So be z. If non-contact badge readers are used, the data transfer between the card and the reader must be encrypted.

During operation, the effectiveness of all technical and organizational measures must be constantly monitored. It is advisable to check regularly, especially at a known problematic location, if no possibilities have arisen to avoid access control. B.in delivery or smoking areas.



