#M 2.414 Computer virus protection for domain controllers
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

For a sufficient protection against computer viruses and other malicious programs an extensive computer virus protection concept must be implemented in an institution. The corresponding procedure is described in block B 1.6 Protection against malware. In principle, the computer virus protection concept should also take into account the domain controllers of an institution.

However, in order for the use of a virus protection program on a Dom nen controller has no negative impact on the current operation, for Dom nen controller some special considerations.

The notes in this instruction are to be understood as general instructions. It may also be necessary to take into account the specific instructions of the manufacturer of the virus protection program used in each case.

When selecting the virus protection software, care must be taken to explicitly support use on a domain controller. The decisive factor here is that the virus protection software uses the programming interfaces (application programming interface, API) provided by the operating system manufacturer.

When using incorrect programming interfaces, the metadata of the examined files may be changed by the access of the virus protection software. In this case, it is possible for the operating system's File Replication Service (FRS) to replicate the supposedly changed file within the organization. Such unnecessary replications can lead to reduced system performance and should therefore be avoided. Further details regarding compatible virus protection programs can be found in the Microsoft Knowledge Base article with article ID 815263.

The correct operation of the virus protection software should be extensively tested for proper functionality in a test environment prior to final deployment in a productive environment. The test environment should be modeled as much as possible on the circumstances of the production environment in order to determine the overall performance of the domain controller.

In order to avoid the introduction of malicious software, Dom nen controllers should only use the operating system's Active Directory functionality and, as far as possible, offer no further services. In particular, a Dom nen controller may not be used as a conventional workstation. For example, users logged in locally on a domain controller should be unable to surf the Internet, receive e-mail, or access external media, such as external devices. USB storage devices or DVD-ROMs.

Similarly, the domain controller should not be used as a file sharing server. If files are made available on the Dom nen controller via file sharing in the network, these files are examined by the virus protection program every time they access malicious software, which leads to performance losses on the domain controller can. File shares on the domain controller should therefore be disabled.

In principle, the virus protection program should monitor all file accesses transparently in the background. However, some files exist on the Windows server operating systems, eg. Directory service database, log files, file replication service database that can interfere with the Dom nen controller's functions when accessed by a virus protection program. Therefore, to avoid unnecessary file locking by the virus protection program and to ensure proper operation of the domain controller, the following points should be noted.



## Examples 
* Active Directory main database
* Active Directory transaction log files
* Active Directory working folder




