#M 2.558 Make employees aware of information security in mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and PDAs
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources, Supervisors

In addition to general information security education and awareness (see M 3.5 Security training and M 2.198 Information security staffing), employees using mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and PDAs need to be special Information security aspects of these devices. For the training and awareness-raising planning, therefore, the employees who use these devices must be separately recorded and trained in accordance with this plan and sensitized.

Mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and PDAs are particularly vulnerable to being lost or stolen due to their small size and relatively high price. A 2005 pointsec survey conducted by a major Chicago taxi company with 900 taxis revealed that 85619 mobile phones and 21460PDAs were left in vehicles over a six-month period. Employees should therefore be particularly advised to keep an eye on these devices and to promptly initiate appropriate measures such as locating, deleting and blocking the devices themselves or through the IT operation in the event of loss.

With the loss of the device, if further security measures are missing, the data on the device will also be lost. Today's devices can store tens of gigabytes of data, leaving plenty of room for confidential business data, price calculations, address books and e-mail. Therefore, security measures must be taken, such as. B. completely encrypting all data on the terminal and locking the device with a password after several minutes of inactivity. According to experience, such necessary measures are viewed critically by the employees, since the expenditure on the use of the terminals increases. For this reason, employees must be sensitized to the information security threat mentioned here and trained in the additional safety measures.

Mobile phones, smartphones and tablets can usually access the Internet and e-mail. Employees must be aware of the associated risks: The device can be infected with malware. Valuable data can be stolen by the device or the device can be used to listen to room calls (see G5.95 Listening to room calls via mobile phones) and telephone calls. Therefore, the devices must be protected against malicious software, for example by installing suitable protection software. In addition, consideration should be given to directing the entire data traffic of mobile phones, smartphones or tablets via a VPN server through a server of the institution in order to ward off malicious software and attacks. Also for these dangers and the resulting restrictions, the employees must be sensitized accordingly.

Since the danger of telecommunications is often treated lightly, institutions should examine the extent to which existing measures to educate their employees on threats in the telecommunications sector are sufficient. If necessary, it is advisable to inform the employees regularly about the risks of dismissal and to sensitize them as well.

Employees should also be told that they should not easily pass on confidential information by phone. In particular, the identity of the communication partner should be questioned before detailed information is given (see  3.45 Insufficient identification check of communication partners). When using mobile phones, you should also ensure that confidential messages are not discussed in the public domain. This also applies in particular to text messages sent by a supposedly known number (see G 5.192 Preface of wrong caller telephone numbers or SMS sender (spoofing)). If confidential information is requested via text messages or chats, a callback should always check whether the request really originated from the given communication partner. Such a check should also take place if a file attachment or a link was unexpectedly sent from a known number.

Again and again circulate spectacular, but false warnings (see G 5.80 Hoax). So that valuable working time is not wasted on verifying the veracity of such messages, all employees should be informed as soon as possible about the occurrence of a new hoax. There are several information services that pass warnings.

These safety measures usually limit the convenience of the terminals. Thus, the full encryption results in a longer wait time on powering up the device to continually enter an appropriate password, is perceived as disturbing, and directs all traffic through VPN to a server of the institution Longer latency while surfing the internet. In addition, each additional backup program increases power consumption and thus reduces the battery life. These restrictions can therefore lead to employees trying to circumvent security measures, which is why, in the context of raising employee awareness, particular attention was paid to the threat to information security posed by mobile devices such as mobile phones, smartphones or tablets so that the measures can be effective in the long term.



