#M 2.40 Timely participation of the personnel / works council
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT, Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources

For all measures which in principle enable the behavior or performance monitoring of employees, for example logging, the co-determination of the staff representation is required. Measures which are suitable for monitoring the performance or performance of an employee must be taken into account by the co-determination of the Staff Committee. The basis for this in Germany are the company constitution and personnel representation laws of the federal government and the federal states. In other countries, the involvement of the Staff Committee is not always necessary. However, the timely and comprehensive information of the works council or staff council is in principle recommended as it can prevent delays in the implementation of information security measures.

If there is already a suspicion that a security incident (see component B 1.8 Handling of security incidents) has been triggered by an internal employee and appropriate investigations are to be carried out that result in sanctions, the participation rights of the personnel or works council are necessarily to be observed. If there is no proper involvement of the employee representation, any further proceedings (if necessary before the labor tribunal), depending on the seriousness of the incident, can be seriously influenced by a formal notice of formal notice.

Large outsourcing service providers report from the field that the early involvement of the client's staff representatives, as far as possible in the bidding phase, can greatly contribute to the success of the project. Employee willingness to change, motivation, job satisfaction and prompt project execution can all be positively influenced by cooperation between all parties involved. The same applies to the planned use of cloud services. A special feature here is that the above-mentioned requirements must be observed even when an institution decides in favor of a private cloud.



