#M 2.301 Outsourcing the security gateway
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The construction and operation of a security gateway means a not inconsiderable financial and human effort. Nevertheless, a security gateway can not be dispensed with if LANs are to be connected to non-trusted networks (especially to the Internet). It is therefore often considered to leave the operation of a security gateway to an external service provider. Different variants are conceivable:

* On-site operation, external administrationThe security gateway is operated and administered within the client's premises. This is an external security gateway administrator mandated. This solution often does not even bring a cost advantage. The disadvantage here is, as with all other solutions, that external assume security-related tasks and internally no corresponding knowledge is built, so that an effective control is extremely difficult.
* Remote ManagementThe security gateway is deployed and operated within the client's premises, but managed remotely. Strong authentication and encryption are essential. The service providers should only access the security gateway themselves, not other data and directories in the LAN. As described in module B 4.4 VPN, further organizational measures should be taken to prevent possible misuse. These include, for example, the interception of a timeout in the event of erroneous access attempts, the blocking of the remote maintenance access during normal operation and explicit release for a precisely defined period of time, restriction of the rights of the external administrators, so that, for example, For example, if security policies can not be set lower, forced logout on line break; If the connection between the remote maintenance center and the PC gateway is interrupted in any way, access to the system must be terminated by a forced logout.
* HostingIn this solution, the security gateway is set up and maintained by the service provider. From the internal LAN to the security gateway, there must be a secure, protected connection. Here, a high level of availability of both the connection and the security gateway system must be guaranteed, since in the event of their failure, external connections are no longer possible In general, other components serving the communication between the protected and the external network should also be used. These include z. B. Information server for the provision of information to internal or external users, mail servers and DNS servers. These are usually set up in a DMZ of the security gateway (see also M 2.77 Integration of Servers in the Security Gateway). In this case, they would have to be operated by the external service provider. This can drive up the costs considerably.


Both in remote management and when hosting a security gateway, there should be an alternative connection to the service provider in order to ensure the administration or the Internet connection in the event of a failure of the main connection. For the alternate connection, it must be ensured that at least the same level of safety is ensured for this connection as for the main connection.

In the various service offerings, there is a need to question

* How much technical, but also how much security-relevant knowledge is available at the provider and how this is currently held,
* whether and how long the security gateway system is operated unattended,
* how the personnel deployment is controlled, since usually several customers are looked after.


Even if the security gateway is managed by a service provider, a security gateway security policy must nevertheless be created internally that is in line with the security goals of the organization (see also M 2.71 Definition of a Policy for a Security Gateway). When outsourcing a security gateway, the service level agreements should in particular specify in writing,

* which reaction times must be ensured in case of precipitation or attacks,
* which availability is to be ensured (performance, maximum failure rate),
* what may or must be logged
* which safety measures must be guaranteed. This includes in particular all measures listed in block B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall).


For the outsourcing of such a safety-critical component as the security gateway, the module B 1.11 Outsourcing must always be used. The service provider should ideally also have a complete information security management system z. B. based on IT-Grundschutz exist. When outsourcing the security gateway it is recommended to at least check whether the security management of the service provider complies with the requirements of the module "B 1.11 Outsourcing".



