#M 2.356 Contract design with service providers for storage solutions
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Public authority / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Only a few institutions will be able and willing to provide the technical support of the storage solution in normal operation and in emergency situations. In this case, they must access suitable manufacturers and suppliers, hereinafter referred to as service providers.

The aspects described below are to be seen as aids and checklists in contract drafting. The type, extent and level of detail of the contractual arrangements depend on the availability requirements of the client and also on the complexity of the specific storage solution.

In principle, the service provider should be obliged to comply with all relevant laws and regulations, but above all data protection according to the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) and the use of organizational and technical measures for information security. These should at least correspond to the level of IT-Grundschutz and, if necessary, be supplemented by further security requirements specified by the client.

In addition to these general obligations, it is advisable to fix all agreed services in a measurable and verifiable manner in the contract. So esz. For example, it may be appropriate to agree that a qualified employee of the service provider must be on-site within four hours in the event of a problem. Such a concrete statement, which is based on the requirements of the institution, may be more useful than a package offer (gold support), which may include unfavorable exceptions (for example, only telephone support on Sundays) of the required quality.

The creation of the emergency preparedness concept for the storage solution should also be part of the contract. In particular, it must be decided who is responsible for the subject matter and which duties of cooperation are the responsibility of the client.

It is strongly recommended that the client invest sufficient preparation in compiling their own requirements. Subsequent concretizations and additions to the contract, which become necessary due to different interpretations of inaccurately described services, are often associated with significant cost increases for the client.

In particular, if the service provision is outsourcing, the module B 1.11 Outsourcing is to be applied additionally; for cloud storage solutions the module B 1.17 Cloud usage and in particular the measure M 2.541 Contract design with the cloud -Diensteanbieter. The following list of topics should, in these cases, serve to concretize the basic requirements for contract design from these building blocks in terms of storage solutions.



## Examples 
* Definition of communication channels and contact persons
* Setting times (eg daytime operation, nighttime operation, which counts as weekend, holidays)
* Definition of processes, work processes and responsibilities
* Procedures for breakdowns, emergencies, crises and other security incidents, appointment of contact persons with the necessary authority
* Accessibility of the service provider to IT resources of the client
* Data transmission of maintenance or status information to the service provider or manufacturer
* Access and access rights for employees of the service provider to the premises and IT systems of the client
* VonDelivery of data on termination of the contractual relationship, data removal on withdrawal of storage media by the contractor




