#M 2.528 Planning the secure separation of clients in storage solutions
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

For many institutions, multi-client capability is an essential functional feature of storage solutions. Insofar as the requirement to separate clients into storage solutions exists, institutions should therefore take measures to ensure that they are secure.

With regard to the planning of a storage system, it is fundamentally necessary to question in what form and to what extent the multi-tenancy is already implemented by the manufacturer when using this solution. Many providers of storage solutions advertise that the products they offer are multi-client capable. However, a vendor does not always understand the functionality that corresponds to the requirements of the institution to be client-friendly.

For example, the realization of memory solutions found in typical service provider environments requires that the data of different users be safely separated from the application isolation.

It is therefore important to ensure that the manufacturers provide at least one of the variants described below for the technical implementation of their offered multi-client capability.

* In the block storage environment, the separation of clients must be ensured by means of LUNMasking. The management component of the storage solution should provide appropriate configuration options.
* In file service environments, there should be the possibility of acting with virtual file servers (also known under various vendor names such as vFiler, virtual data mover etc.). These offer the possibility to assign each client a separate file service. Virtual file servers offer the possibility of being administered as an encapsulated environment. For use in high-availability environments, virtual file servers in this form, with all their features, can be mirrored from one data center to another. Thus, the secure separation of clients can be maintained even after the failure of a storage solution or individual components.
* In the case of higher protection requirements, it should be possible to provide clients, ie internal or external users, storage resources from different so-called storage pools. For this purpose, different, physically separated, storage media are combined to form a storage pool. A storage medium may only ever be assigned to a single pool. The logical disks (LUNs) that are generated from such a pool may subsequently only be assigned to a single client. It is therefore not possible for a tenant to access the storage media of another tenant.


In addition to the implementation of client separation via functions that are provided directly by the storage solution, there is also the option of securely separating clients from activities at the network level. When using IP, iSCSI and FC-SAN, the technical separation of clients via segmentation in the network can be carried out.

* In the IP and iSCSI environment this can be ensured by physically separate networks or by the introduction of VLANs. Further information can be found in M 5.77 Formation of subnets and M 5.62 Suitable logical segmentation.
* In the FC environment, usually only one central redundant network is used. Only in exceptional cases is a physical separation of the networks realized here. The separation is usually ensured with the help of VSANs and soft zoning. Hard zoning is typically less common today because higher security, by securely allocating storage to a specific network, limits the flexibility needed in SAN environments. For more information, M 5.130 Securing the SAN by Segmenting and M4.447 Ensuring the Integrity of the SAN Fabric.
* Additional measures requiring a high level of protection: If there is a high need for protection, in particular with regard to confidentiality, it is advisable to examine the introduction of encryption and the corresponding key management. Encryption can be introduced at different levels. Further details can be found, inter alia, in M4.448 Use of encryption for memory solutions.




