#M 2.65 Control the effectiveness of user separation on the IT system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, auditor

By means of log analysis or random sampling, it must be checked at appropriate intervals whether the users of IT systems regularly log off after completion of the task or whether several users work under one ID.

If it is found that several users are actually working under one ID, they must be informed of the obligation to unsubscribe after completion of the task. At the same time, the purpose of this measure should be explained, which is in the interest of the individual user.

If it turns out that the log-on and log-off procedures are too time-consuming and are not accepted despite being prompted, alternative measures should be discussed, such as:

* The IT system can be assigned to a user for specific time intervals so that other users are not allowed to use the IT system during this time. This assumes that the work process is accordingly variable in time.
* Additional IT systems can be purchased to avoid quasi-parallel work on an IT system. If these devices are locked away when they are used, it is also possible to dispense with logging in and out of the usage intervals.
* Instead of time-consuming multistage authentication methods, automated authentication methods such as overRFID-based tokens or biometric methods could be used.
* If the data records of the individual users can be separated (for example, user A processes the data A-L, user B processes the data M-Z), then different access rights should be granted for this.




