#M 2.492 Integration of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment into the existing security infrastructure
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

Lotus Notes / Domino has its own security mechanisms and can be supplemented by additional security components (such as Lotus Notes / Domino customized antivirus programs or spam filters). An organization planning to deploy Lotus Notes / Domino for the first time (or planning to upgrade the Lotus Notes / Domino platform) is required to integrate the Lotus Notes / Domino security mechanisms into its existing security architecture to avoid security islands.

In particular, security components such as security gateways, content scanner filters, and antivirus software that are used in the Lotus Notes / Domino environment must be adapted to the specific requirements of Lotus Domino protocols and services.

Conversely, the Lotus Notes / Domino security mechanisms can be used to tailor other security components and eliminate perimeter security vulnerabilities. The interaction of the Lotus Notes / Domino security mechanisms with the existing security components must therefore be planned before introducing or updating the platform.

Interaction of Lotus Notes / Domino with security gateways

Lotus Domino servers can be placed in a DMZ and protected accordingly by security gateways. The specific positioning of the individual Lotus Notes / Domino server components is part of the security architecture for the Lotus Notes / Domino environment.

Especially with existing security components that are used for the Lotus Notes / Domino environment, it is necessary to conceptualize the interaction of these components with Lotus Notes / Domino. The technical requirements for the Lotus Notes / Domino services and the technical features of the protocols used by Lotus Notes / Domino (eg the existing or non-existent option, the protocol for the use of a secure server) are all the same Configure connection).

Interaction of Lotus Notes / Domino with solutions against spam, content scanners / filters and anti-virus programs

Security components should preferably be used to secure the Lotus Domino Web Gateway and the malicious program protection of Lotus Notes / Domino, which specifically supports the Lotus Notes / Domino platform. The solutions used against spam, content scanners, content filters and malware protection must be adapted to the requirements of the Lotus Domino services and the protocols used.

Interaction of Lotus Notes / Domino with security components for central logging and automatic log analysis

Logging and log analysis on central systems provide, among other things, protection against manipulation of Lotus Notes / Domino security logging by users with high privileges, administrators or successful attackers. Continuously removing security logging to a tamper-resistant centralized environment (eg, a centralized logging server) is therefore an important measure against a variety of threats, particularly those involving administrative privileges.

If central logging and evaluation systems (also called Security Information and Event Monitoring or SIEM solutions) are used, it is to be regulated which part of the Lotus Notes / Domino logging is running via these systems and which the Lotus Notes / Domino-specific evaluation criteria are.



