#M 2.324 Planning to introduce Windows on clients starting with Windows XP
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

The regulated and secure introduction of Windows clients as of Windows XP requires extensive planning. The necessary prerequisites for the secure operation of Windows client operating systems are created in the planning phase.

The individual planning steps are dependent on the planned deployment scenarios of the Windows client systems. The introduction must be planned as detailed as possible in its individual steps. Not only the contents but also the internal processes and processes of the institution have to be considered. All content and processes must be defined, documented in a guideline and made accessible to all involved.

In general, sufficient time must be scheduled for the introduction of a new Windows client operating system. A period of half a year is quite realistic for larger companies and public authorities. In the course of the planning the experience has to be adjusted several times.

The following security-related aspects must be taken into account when introducing Windows XP or higher.



## Examples 
* Are there any guidelines for uninstalling / migrating / upgrading Windows systems and making them accessible to everyone involved?
* Will the migration bring advanced access privileges and relaxed security settings back to the highest level of security after the migration is complete?
* If the domain controllers do not run under Windows Server 2008 when using Windows clients as of Windows Vista: If the configuration of the group policies is performed by a Windows client with the appropriate tools, such as. RSAT?
* Is there a user and administration concept for Windows client operating systems?
* Are there rules for monitoring whether the security policies are adhered to?
* Is there a concept for data storage, data backup and encryption of the user data for Windows versions from Windows XP?
* Are there any requirements for installing apps from the Windows Store and their use? Are the requirements and requirements correspondingly taken into account in the planning?
* Is the use of cloud services such as? OneDrive governed in the security policy for client systems, and considered in the implementation planning?
* Has a reasoned decision on the use of the TPM been made and are there adequate concepts for the loss of stored cryptographic information there?




