#M 2.75 Appropriate selection of an application-level gateway
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

The functions of an application-level security gateway are handled by application-level gateways (ALGs). Implicitly, ALGs also perform functions on layers 1-3. ALGs are often called security proxies, but in the following the term proxy is used abbreviating. Proxies interrupt the direct stream of data between source and destination. In the case of communication between client and server via a proxy, the proxy receives the requests from the client and forwards them to the server. When establishing a connection in the opposite direction, ie from the server to the client, the proxy moves in the same way. All communication relationships between the two computers in this case therefore run indirectly via the proxy.

Some pros and cons of security proxies are summarized in the following table:



## Examples 
* Often less number of programming errors than in proxy protected client / server utilities.
* Filtering of individual protocol commands (eg with HTTP the command POST) depending on the parameterization of the commands, the time and the user possible.
* Removal of unwanted content in the transmitted data.
* Defense against attacks based on bad header data.
* Replacing the sender address of a forwarded IP packet with the IP address of the network interface over which the packet exits the proxy. This will hide the IP addresses of the trusted network. In addition, only one IP address must be entered.
* Forcing a strong authentication possible.
* Extensive logging options. You can log for each connection at the application level: User identification IP address of the source and destination computerPort numberTime and date




