#M 2.216 Approval procedure for IT components
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The procurement, installation and operation of IT components of all kinds must be coordinated and approved. It must be regulated how IT components are removed, released, installed or used. This applies, for example, to the use of modems, floppy disk drives, software and mobile phones. A corresponding procedure for the standard software area is described in block B 1.10 standard software. The entire lifecycle of standard software is considered: creation of a requirements catalog, pre-selection of a suitable product, test, release, installation, license management and uninstallation. In order to develop a similar procedure for other IT components, this module can also be oriented.

As part of the approval process for new IT components

* the general functionality is examined (see also M 4.65 test of new hardware and software),
* whose safety characteristics are evaluated,
* possible security risks that could arise from these IT components are examined and evaluated and largely remedied,
* all their safety features (both positive and negative) are carefully documented,
* on this basis installation instructions are worked out.


In addition, during the approval process, installation or configuration instructions should be prepared in which all safety-related settings are documented. Even after the initial installation of IT components, they must be maintained (see also M 4.78 Careful implementation of configuration changes). Before commissioning new IT components, the administrators or users should be trained in their application (if necessary).

The installation and use of unapproved IT components must be prohibited and compliance with this prohibition must be regularly monitored.



