#M 2.400 Safe decommissioning of printers, copiers and multifunction devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If printers, copiers, multifunctional devices or individual components of such devices are to be taken out of operation or replaced, all safety-related information must be deleted from the devices. This is especially true if the components are segregated and passed on to third parties. Examples of this are sales, return after leasing, replacement by the manufacturer and repair by a service company. But even if the equipment continues to be internally used or scrapped, all sensitive information on the equipment must be erased.

Depending on the purpose and type of device, the following safety-relevant information can be stored, for example:

* Cached Information: Digital copiers typically scan the entire document before printing it. Even with printers, the document is cached first. For caching therefore storage devices are installed in the devices, usually in the form of hard disks. In some circumstances, documents that have been deleted in the meantime can be restored. Some devices have a feature to clear the contents of the memory.
* Configuration settings: In particular with network-capable devices, the configuration settings, such as IP addresses, may indicate the network structure. The configuration settings should therefore be deleted or reset to the delivery condition. Many devices offer corresponding functions for this purpose.
* Passwords: For many devices, password or token-based authentication is provided, but only for administration. However, there are also devices in which authentication can be activated for all user accesses. All passwords should be reset to the delivery condition.
* Certificates: Some devices provide the ability to include certificate-based authentication, for example over IEEE 802.1X. All certificates should be reset to the delivery condition.
* Additional information: Under certain circumstances, consumables, such as toner drums, can be used to close the printed documents. For higher protection needs, a risk assessment should be used to decide if used consumables need to be destroyed.


Before the operation or transfer of equipment to third parties, the internal memory must be deleted. If the hard disk can be removed, it is recommended to delete it separately. After the memory has been cleared, it must be checked whether the deletion was successful.

The procedure depends strongly on the type and intended use of the respective device.

If particularly safety-critical information is stored on the device and if it can not be guaranteed with sufficient certainty that the data has really been erased, it may be necessary to physically destroy the memory or render it unusable.



