#M 2.418 Create a security policy for VPN usage
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

Appropriate safety guidelines must be established for the use of VPN components in authorities and companies. These VPN-specific security policies must conform to the overall security policy and general security policies of the institution. They must be regularly checked for actuality and adjusted if necessary. The VPN-specific specifications can be supplemented in the existing guidelines or summarized in a separate guideline. A VPN security policy should include, but is not limited to:

* It should describe who is allowed to install, configure and use VPN components in the institution. For this purpose, a variety of constraints are set such. For example, what information may be transmitted over VPNs where the VPN components may be used, which other internal or external networks or IT systems may be accessed via a VPN.
* For all VON components, security measures and a default configuration should be specified.


* All VPN users should be advised that in case of suspected security issues, a security officer must be informed so that they can take further action (see also B 1.8 Handling security incidents).


* Administrators as well as users of VPN components should be informed or informed about VPN threats and the security measures to be followed.


The correct implementation of the security measures described in the VPN Security Directive should be monitored regularly.



## Examples 
* to which other internal and external networks or IT systems the VPN-client may be coupled,
* Under which conditions you may apply for an internal or external VPN registration,
* What steps should be taken in (suspected) compromising the VPN client, especially who to notify.




