#M 2.466 Migration to a terminal server architecture
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

When migrating an existing client-server architecture to a terminal-server-based environment, it must first be thoroughly checked before the implementation whether the applications to be migrated are suitable for this purpose.

If file or access conflicts on the target system occur during the check, this is usually due to a lacking or missing separation of the user sessions by the affected application. Windows-based server operating systems offer the possibility here of performing the necessary encapsulation, representative of the applications, within a special installation mode. The registry database (Windows registry) and files in important system directories are separated individually for each session. Also applications that are suitable for terminal servers according to the manufacturers, eg. B. Windows Terminal Server and Terminal Server Solutions from Citrix, are mostly designed to be installed in this form. If the described encapsulation technique is available for the planned Terminal Server solution, it should be used. If the installation of the application has been completed successfully, exit the installation mode again.



## Examples 
* Are the applications suitable for use on a terminal server?
* Ensures that applications on terminal servers do not unauthorized access to critical system paths and registry databases. B. by means of a special installation mode?
* Has it been taken into account that applications with different protection requirements may not be operated on terminal servers without adequate measures?




