#M 2.355 Selection of suppliers for a storage solution
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Public authority / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Once the requirements for a storage solution have been specified, a suitable supplier must be identified. The selection of possible suppliers must take into account more criteria than the pure hardware solution and its price. Possible selection criteria are:

* technical requirements
* Commercial Requirements (Purchase, Leasing, Storage-on-Demand [SoD] Models)
* Existing supplier relationships
* Existing framework agreements with suppliers
* Comprehensive service provision


It can be assumed that the support of the supplier is at least required for the solution of problems in the enterprise and a fortiori for hardware outfits. Accordingly, in addition to prices and terms for the procurement of the storage solution and its commissioning, the conditions and scope of the offered support must also be evaluated.

The aspects of maintenance and servicing are defined in writing in the contract as part of service level agreements (SLAs). Accordingly, the offer of a possible supplier should include the prices for conceivable SLAs in addition to the hardware and software prices, so that the customer can compare the total packages if different manufacturers or suppliers are considered.

Also important in this context is the evaluation of additional criteria such as the serviceability of a provider, which, for example, depends on the distribution of individual service points. In addition, a centralized hotline provided by the vendor or proof of capability by having a significant number of appropriately certified employees for the desired system may be a key consideration. Institutions should continue to pay attention to M .2.356 contracting with storage solution service providers.

If a storage solution is not bought, but z. If, for example, it is contracted, how data transfer to successor systems, data deletion and other technical and organizational issues are handled at the end of the contract and what costs are incurred.

In general, it can be said that a solution from a single source can have advantages, especially for complex systems, and should therefore be tested: As a rule, problems arising during setup, test and operation can be eliminated faster and more effectively. if only one provider is involved.

In the case of solutions from components of different suppliers, price advantages can be achieved in the purchase. However, it is important to check if this benefit will persist even if the costs of implementation (basic configuration, trial operation, data migration) and operation (maintenance, support in case of problems) are considered.



