#M 2.261 Regular market observation of archive systems
Responsible for initiation: archive administrator, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Archive administrator, IT manager

The required storage times for archive data are usually many times higher than the average life expectancy of individual components of an electronic archive. This affects both hardware and software components.

In order to ensure the full range of functions over the entire period of archiving, it can be assumed that individual hardware components, entire assemblies or software components may need to be replaced multiple times.

An important prerequisite for this is a regular market observation. This serves to register emerging changes in good time. Such changes can z. B. be:

* Changing an old standard or adopting a new standard for storage formats,
* Changes in the manufacturer of the archive system used or its storage components (change to new system platforms, termination of a product series and cessation of support, cessation of production of storage media, insolvency of a manufacturer),
* Becoming aware of security gaps or vulnerabilities, z. B. in encryption algorithms used.


It is recommended to establish regular contact with all participating manufacturers, for example by participating in information forums, eg. Newsgroups and mailing lists in which up-to-date information about the used archive system is regularly sent.

At least one person should be responsible for regularly collecting the information described above, evaluating its significance for the archive system used and, if necessary, recommending necessary activities. For this, it must be determined how a possibly required migration of the system is initiated. The information gained here feeds into the regular revision of the archiving process (see M 2.260 Periodic revision of the archiving process).



