#M 2.143 Development of a network management concept
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, IT Security Officer

The variety of IT systems combined in a local network, such as: Server systems, terminals, printers, active network components, etc., should be centrally administered and monitored at the network level at a suitable location. A central administration of the network components is preferable to a decentralized one, since in this case administration costs can be reduced and security requirements can be centrally defined and controlled. First and foremost, centralized network management is used to ensure the availability and integrity of the network, as well as the integrity and confidentiality of the data transmitted. This task has a high complexity and should be supported by the use of a network management tool.

Prior to the procurement and operation of such a network management system, the first step is to develop a concept in which all safety requirements for network management are formulated and appropriate measures are proposed for the error or alarm case. In particular, the following components of a network management concept are to be taken into account in the preparation and presented in an overall context.

* Performance measurements for network analysis (see M 2.140 Analysis of the current grid situation),
* Selection of a management network (see M 2.582 options for setting up a management network),
* Reactions to error messages of the monitored network components,
* Remote maintenance / remote control, in particular of the active network components,
* Generation of trouble tickets and escalation in the event of network problems (This can be used to connect to system management and user help systems or to external messaging providers.),
* Logging and auditing of network traffic (online and / or offline),
* Integration of possibly existing proprietary systems or systems with different management protocols (eg in the telecommunications sector),
* Configuration management of all IT systems in use (see M 4.82 Secure configuration of active network components),
* Distributed access to the network management functions (For administration or for the audit, remote access to the network management functions may be necessary.) In particular, a careful definition and assignment of the access rights is necessary. ).


The concrete requirements for a network management tool are described in M 2.145 Requirements for a Network Management Tool. These must enable implementation of the network management concept.



