#M 2.213 Inspection and maintenance of the technical infrastructure
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: building services

The intervals and rules recommended by the manufacturers or specified by standards for inspection and maintenance of the components of the technical infrastructure should be strictly adhered to and carried out by adequately trained personnel. At inspection the condition of the technical device is established. During maintenance preventive measures are taken to maintain the operational capability of the technical equipment, eg. Wear parts are replaced before reaching the wear limit.

Inspections and maintenance should be carried out during off-peak hours. The likelihood of spontaneous failure due to component failure will decrease if this work is done regularly and conscientiously. Otherwise, the failure can lead to more extensive repair work and thus lead to major business interruptions.

The maintenance work not only ensures the availability but also the economic operation of plants. So is z. B. the regular replacement or cleaning of filter elements of an air conditioning system is important for maintaining the performance, efficiency and operating costs of the air conditioning system.

The intervals should be adjusted beyond the values ??stated by the manufacturer to the actual circumstances. Will z. B. If it has been determined that wear parts reach the wear limit much earlier than the manufacturer stipulates, the intervals must be shortened. At the same time, the reasons for this shortening of the service life should be sought and, if possible, eliminated. Especially in cases of a temporary significant change in the conditions of use, eg. Alterations, additional inspections are strongly recommended.

Inspections carried out and maintenance work on the technical infrastructure should be logged so that it is always clear which work was carried out at what time and when the next ones are due.



