#M 2.9 Use of non-approved hardware and software
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

It is quite common for employees to use their own hardware and software, such as private mobile phones, PDAs or cameras, for work or at least in the service rooms. Since the use of additional hardware over standard interfaces such as USB and extensive plug-and-play functionality is getting easier, their use must be regulated. Information security can be impaired, for example, by external USB storage media (eg hard disks, memory sticks) or private PDAs.

It must therefore be regulated how hardware and software may be accepted, released, installed or used. Measures that should be implemented for this purpose include, for example: M 2.216 approval procedures for IT components, M 2.62 software acceptance and approval procedures. Block B 1.10 Standard software and M 4.4 Suitable handling of drives for removable media and external data memories.

The installation or use of non-approved hardware and software must be prohibited and prevented as much as possible by technical means. For most operating systems, this can be achieved by limiting the user environment. This is to prevent programs with undesirable effects from being introduced. In addition, it should be prevented that the system is used uncontrolled beyond the defined range of functions. It may be useful (eg to prevent macro viruses) to extend this usage ban to the import of private data.

For software, it must be documented which versions of executable files have been released (including creation date and file size). The released programs are to be checked regularly for changes.

Prohibitions of use of hardware and software not released should be fixed in writing, all employees must be informed about it. Exemptions should provide for a reservation of authorization.



