#M 2.397 Planning the use of printers, copiers and multifunction devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

A basic prerequisite for the safe use of printers, copiers and multifunctional devices is appropriate planning in advance. The use of printers can be planned in several steps according to the principle of top-down design: Based on a rough concept for the overall system, concrete plans for sub-components are defined in specific sub-concepts. Planning does not only concern aspects that are classically associated with the term security, but also normal operational aspects that may entail safety requirements.

The rough concept should, for example, cover the following topics:

* First of all, it is necessary to determine where printers and copiers are to be installed and who may access these rooms or the devices (see M 1.32 Suitable installation of printers and copiers).
* The next step is to regulate the access to the network printers, ie who gets which access rights to which printers for which tasks.
* The printers and copiers must be protected against attacks. By appropriate measures physical manipulations should be counteracted. If, for example, locks or seals are attached to maintenance accesses such as access doors, unauthorized changes can be made more difficult or at least detected. In addition, attacks via networks should be made more difficult. This includes, for example, unauthorized access to interfaces for remote administration via the LAN (see measure M 4.301 Restriction of access to printers, copiers and multifunction devices). In addition, the electronic information must be protected both during the transfer to the printer and during further processing. For example, it should be considered to encrypt all documents that are stored on the hard disks of the printer and copier (possibly only temporarily).


The following subconcepts should be considered when planning the use of printers, copiers, and similar devices:

* General aspects: Buying or renting: In some cases it may make sense not to buy the necessary printers or copiers, but to rent. When the equipment is rented, it must be ensured that any documents stored in the memory are securely erased so that they can not be restored by the next customer who rents the equipment. In this case, it must first be checked whether the memory areas can be reliably erased without physically destroying them. Local or network-capable printers: It is up to you to decide where local printers, only individual ones IT systems are available or network-capable printers that can be used by multiple users to be used. Often an intermediate solution also offers advantages: Users who often have to print out sensitive information receive a local printer for these printouts. For the printouts of the remaining users or for printouts of information with a lower protection requirement, more powerful, centralized printers are available for the interim solution. Print Servers: Network printers can be sent directly from the workstations or via a personal computer (or more) print servers are controlled. A print server accepts the print jobs from the IT systems and forwards them to the desired printers. In addition to centralized management and logging, printers can be more efficiently protected against attacks if only the print servers are still able to access the network printers. A suitable solution is to be selected. Guidelines for Use: In order to be able to use printers, copiers, scanners and multifunction devices safely and effectively in authorities or companies, security requirements must be met which are based on the existing security objectives and include the requirements of the planned deployment scenarios. These specific security requirements must be aligned with the overall security concept of the institution. Based on this, the secure use of these devices must be regulated and security guidelines developed for them (see M 2.398 User Guidelines for the Handling of printers, copiers and multifunction devices). It is important to ensure that printers, multifunction devices and similar devices are included in security audits and that these devices are also regularly monitored for the implementation of security requirements. Distribution of privileges: It must be decided whether certain functions of a printer should be restricted to selected users. Examples of these are more expensive functions such as color prints or paper documents on special paper formats, such as DINA3. Corresponding user rights can make managing the printer and troubleshooting more difficult. Refilling Consumables: Consumables and toner must be replenished regularly on printers and copiers. Regulations have to be made as to who is responsible for this and which processes must be adhered to (see M 2.52 Supply and Control of Consumables and M 2.2 Resource Management).
* Document access regulations: Measures must be taken to make accessing third-party documents more difficult: Safety-critical information: If security-critical information is frequently printed on network printers, it must be ensured that only authorized persons can access the printouts , For example, network printers and copiers can be used in which users must authenticate themselves directly to the device for printing (see M 4.299 Authentication for printers, copiers and multifunction devices). Alternatively, access to the printer could be restricted to a few trustworthy individuals who distribute the printouts to the recipients. Further restrictions: It is to be decided whether and which restrictions should apply to printer accesses. For example, it usually does not make sense for people outside of the network to print to remote printers because they can not pick up their printouts directly. Also for the times, in which normally not printed, appropriate restrictions can be implemented.
* Network Printer Protection: Restrict access to the network printers (see M 4.301 Restricting Access to Printers, Copiers, and Multifunction Devices): Administration: To prevent unauthorized persons from making changes to printer settings. appropriate measures must be taken to protect network printers. Physical protection: It should be considered to take measures against manipulation directly on the device. Network-specific protection: When using network-capable components, mechanisms must be set up to protect against attacks from the network. If IEEE 802.1X or similar network access control techniques are supported by the network printers and the network infrastructure, they should also be used. This protects against IT systems that have been connected to the network without authorization. In addition, print servers should not be able to connect to other IT systems other than the default printers.
* Availability: Precautions must be taken to prevent failure of the print server or individual devices. By means of maintenance contracts, for example, the downtime can be reduced if technical defects occur (see M 6.105 Emergency Preparedness for Printers, Copiers and Multifunction Devices).
* Encryption: In the M 4.300 Information Protection for Printers, Copiers and Multifunction Devices, the following questions that play an important role in planning are considered: Hard Disk Encryption: Many printers and digital copiers have built-in Storage media on which information is stored. If the device supports encryption, it should be used. Encryption of Communication: It should be considered to encrypt communications between the workstations and the print servers, and between the print servers and the printers.


All decisions made in the planning phase must be documented in such a way that they can be reconstructed at a later date. It is important to ensure a proper structuring and understanding.



