#M 2.323 Controlled commissioning of a client
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

When decommissioning a client, above all, it must be ensured that

* no important data that may be stored on the client is lost, and that
* no sensitive data remains on the data carriers of the computer.


In particular, it is important to have an overview of what data is stored on the system.

* Data backup Before the computer is put out of operation, locally stored data that is still needed must either be externally backed up or archived (for example, on magnetic tape, CD or DVD ROMs) or transferred to a replacement system. After the backup, it should be checked that all data has been backed up correctly. In this context, it may be useful to provide users with a suitable drive, such as an external CD or DVD burner, for backing up any stored local data. Further information on this topic can be found in the blocks B 1.4 Data backup concept and B 1.12 Archiving.
* Extracting the system from directory services and databasesExtended authorizations in the network that are linked to the client computer itself (and not to a user) must be deleted. Examples of this are entries on proxy servers on the security gateway or access rights to network services, which are assigned using the IP address. If the client is entered in network-wide directory services or databases (for example in a Windows domain, Active Directory, NIS or similar), the associated entries must be deleted or at least the corresponding accounts must be deactivated.


* Deleting the data on the systemMake sure that there is no more valuable information on the hard drives. It is not enough just to reformat the disks, but they have to be completely overwritten at least once. It should be noted that neither the logical deletion with the deletion functions of the operating system nor the reformatting of the disks actually removes the data from the hard disks. With suitable software, data can be reconstructed in such cases, often without much effort. Further information can be found in M 2.13 Proper disposal of valuable equipment and in M 2.167 Selection of suitable methods for deleting or destroying data.
* Deleting Backup Media After a system has been shut down, it may also be necessary to erase the corresponding backup media if the data stored on it is no longer needed.
* Removing other information If potentially sensitive data is stored on a computer at locations other than those on the hard disk (such as a non-volatile memory) (for example, certain configuration data), these must also be removed before the device is transferred.


It is recommended to use the recommendations given above to create a checklist that can be used when commissioning a system. In this way it can be avoided that individual steps are forgotten.



