#M 2.231 Planning Group Policy on Windows
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

For the configuration of Windows computers a powerful mechanism of the so-called group guidelines is available as of Windows 2000. Already under Windows NT there was a similar but much less powerful tool with the group guidelines. Group Policy in Active Directory is used to apply a set of configuration settings, including security settings, to a group of objects. A so-called Group Policy Object (GPO) aggregates a given set of configuration parameters (by default, over 700). For each parameter, a specific value can be given, which may only come from a limited range of values. In general, the value can not be selected in a defined way so that the Windows default settings automatically apply to these parameters. The default settings are documented in the Group Policy help file, including the Windows 2000 Server Resource Kit.

The parameters within a group policy object are summarized thematically in a tree-like or file system-like manner. The result is a general split at the highest level in settings for computers as well as for users. From a security perspective, the settings that are found below the following paths are particularly interesting:

* Calculator Settings / Windows Settings / Security Settings
* Computer Settings / Administrative Settings / Windows Components / Windows Installer
* Computer Settings / Administrative Templates / System / Group Policy
* User Settings / Administrative Templates / Windows Components / Microsoft Management Console
* User Settings / Administrative Settings / Windows Components / Windows Installer


The server operating systems Windows 2000 Server and Windows Server 2003 (hereafter referred to as Windows Server) generally calculate the valid settings for each user logged on to a domain and for each logged-in user r every group policy parameter. This calculation is necessary as the parameter settings can be defined by different Group Policy objects that can overlap each other. The following GPOs can be defined:

* Each machine has a locally defined Group Policy object. This allows the definition of parameter settings locally on the computer, eg. If there is no network connection.
* Group Policy objects can be defined through Windows server sites. This allows settings to be adapted to specific locations.
* Within the Active Directory structure, group policy objects for the domain object can be defined so that parameter settings can be controlled for computers and users within the entire domain.
* On each OU object, group policies can be defined whose settings then affect all computers and users below this OU object.


For the calculation of the respective parameter settings valid for a specific computer or user, the following calculation or coverage scheme (local <location <domain <organizational unit, LSDO) is used: First, the local Settings taken into account (L, Local). Then these settings are masked by the settings of the GPO defined at the related location (S, Location). Thereafter, the cover is covered by the group policy objects defined on the relevant domain object (D, domain). Finally, the group policy objects of the OU objects are applied in the order in which they are defined on the way from the domain object to the OU object containing the respective computer or user (O, organizational unit).

The cover can be influenced by the options block or force. If the settings are blocked and forced to conflict, the enforcement setting is enforced. In addition, at the OU level, it is possible to define multiple GPOs for an OU object. The cover is made according to the order given. It is also possible to enable or disable each individual Group Policy object for an OU object.

Group Policy objects can only be defined in Active Directory on OU objects, but not on individual computers or user objects. The locally defined GPO is not stored in the Active Directory. If a GPO that is defined on an OU object that groups computer objects does not affect all of the included computer objects, you can prevent the application from accessing a specific computer object by assigning access rights to the GPO. For this purpose, this computer object has to be deprived of the right to apply to the GPO.

However, the previously used depiction of the definition of GPOs on OU objects was simplified: GPOs are stored separately in Active Directory and form a pool of objects. Each defined GPO can now be associated with one or more OU objects. One speaks then of a link. By marking a link as enabled or disabled, the respective GPO is used in the calculation for the OU object or not (see above). For each GPO, the properties dialog can be used to determine which OU objects have a link, ie. which objects they potentially affect.

From a security perspective, the following aspects should be considered when planning and using GPOs:

* The group policy concept must be kept as simple as possible. Complex structures of multiple covers should be avoided. In particular, the possibility of assigning access rights to GPOs should only be used in exceptional cases. In general, the group policy concept must be documented in such a way that exceptions are easy to recognize.


* The Group Policy concept and the OU object tree have a significant impact on each other because Active Directory group policy objects can only be applied to OU objects, not to machine or user objects. When building up the OU groupings, it must therefore be ensured that only objects that are to be provided with the same GPO settings are combined in an OU object or subordinate OU objects.


* Due to the rights calculation, it is possible to distribute the management of the parameter settings to different locations (local, location, domain object, OU objects). It must therefore be decided for each parameter where it is defined. It should be noted that some parameters only become effective if they are defined in specific locations. So z. For example, the password settings can only be defined on domain objects.


* Group Policy objects must be protected against unauthorized changes. On the one hand, appropriate authorizations must be assigned in the Active Directory (see also M 2.230 Active Directory Administration Planning, M 3.27 Active Directory Management Training) and, on the other hand, the use of appropriate administration tools, such as: For example, MMC Group Policy snap-in or registry editors can be disabled for users.


* The settings must be defined, in particular, for the safety-relevant parameters within a GPO. In addition to the settings specified above, other parameters can also be relevant to safety depending on the application scenario. These include z. Eg Internet Explorer settings.


The settings of the various GPOs must generally be based on and implement the security guidelines of the company or the authorities. Corresponding defaults for the security settings that can be used as a basis within a group policy can be found in the Active Directory module Resource Guide in the Group Policy Security Settings section.



