#M 2.425 Appropriate choice of tools for patch and change management
Responsible for initiation: Change Manager, IT Security Officer, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, Change Manager

The patch and change management process can be supported with different products or product combinations. There can be many reasons to use a tool to implement and execute the patching and modification process. Often, heterogeneous IT infrastructures and the more effective use of resources are determining factors.

Before procuring a patch and change management tool, the requirements and framework conditions should be determined in order to find a suitable tool for the respective institution. The procedure for the evaluation of a product is always similar and is based on the institution's valid patch strategy, irrespective of whether patch and change management is used as a tool for an operating system the product range of a manufacturer or for a large heterogeneous IT scenario is needed.

The following is a selection of the most important features that should be considered when choosing a product and that are the basis for the formulation of the requirements of the software tool.

* Platform Support: Under this term, there are basically two aspects. On the one hand, it examines which platforms are supported with regard to the implementation of the patching and modification process, and on the other hand, on which platform the tool can run. In particular, the first aspect should be considered in great detail, since, for example, in the server-client area, most tool manufacturers support changes to Microsoft products. However, this does not mean that the entire range of IT products available in the institution is covered by desktop and server operating systems, from application servers to individual products.
* Patch analysis: Some manufacturers focus on the amount of updates associated with the distribution process and their rapid distribution, as well as the reporting of delivery status. Some provide more information about the reasons for a patch, partly with lists of affected files, more detailed description of the vulnerabilities and own test reports. In particular, for the use of security patches, which should generally be distributed quickly, the detailed information may contain an indispensable indication for the internal classification of the hardware or software change.
* Patch Verification: Most manufacturers provide hashes, fingerprints, or signatures with the patches and changes to confirm their authenticity and integrity, but few tools test this evidence as well. As a result, there is a risk that unwanted software will be distributed in bulk throughout the institution, causing significant damage. For safety reasons, therefore, you should not use any modification tools that lack this functionality.
* Patch Strategy: The tool must allow flexible configuration to automate as many steps as possible in the chosen patch strategy. This can differ greatly due to different platforms. The completed steps of the change process should be documented comprehensibly by the tool and, if necessary, audit-proof. Later changes in the process must be able to flow into the tool.
* Distribution: Not every patch should be applied to every system. The tool should be the grouping of systems and applications according to freely definable attributes such. B. protection requirements, location and organizational unit. These attributes can be used to create IT system profiles corresponding to the standardized system types in the institution.
* Rollback: No software is perfect. Therefore, despite all the preliminary tests, there may be a need to reverse a patch process. Automation of this process saves time and money in the event of a fault! If erroneous changes can not be remedied promptly and with little effort, this can seriously damage the institution.
* Status Assessment: There must be an automatism to correctly distribute the changed hardware or software on all systems. As with software distribution in general, there could be problems with the connection or availability of a system. A patch can then be rejected by the system due to other system states. Therefore, the possibility that the change tool detects the patch status of all systems is important. Depending on the strategy, if problems occur, the tool should continue the technical patching process on the remaining IT systems or skip certain system groups or terminate the patch process.




