#M 2.35 Gathering information about security holes in the system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Countermeasures that have become known and have been made accessible by means of publications must be accompanied by the necessary organizational and administrative measures. If necessary, security-relevant updates or patches for the hardware and software used must be installed (see also M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates). If no corresponding updates or patches are available, additional security hardware or security software may be required.

It is therefore very important that the system administrators regularly inform themselves about newly discovered vulnerabilities. Sources of information on this topic include:

* The Federal Office for Security in Information Technology (BSI) (see http://www.bsi.bund.de/)
* Manufacturer or Distributor of programs and operating systems. These often inform registered customers about known security gaps in their systems and provide corrected versions of the system or patches for the elimination of security gaps.
* Computer Emergency Response Teams (CERT s). These are emergency computer teams that act as a single point of contact for preventive and reactive action on security-related incidents in computer systems. CERTs inform in so-called advisories about current weaknesses in hardware and software products and make recommendations for their correction. Different organizations or associations maintain their own CERTs. The original CERT of Carnegie Mellon University served as a role model for many more such teams and is now a kind of umbrella CERT: Computer Emergency Response Team / Coordination Center (CERT / CC), Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University , Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890, Phone: + 1-412-268-7090 (24-hour hotline), Email: cert@cert.org, WWW: http: //www.cert.orgCERT Notices are published in newsgroups (comp.security.announce and info.nsfnet.cert) and via mailinglists (recording by e-mail to: cert-advisory-request@cert.org). In Germany, the following CERTs exist:
* CERT-Bund, Federal Office for Security in Information Technology, PO Box 20 03 63, D-53133 Bonn, Telephone: 0228 99-9582-222, Fax: 022899-9582-5427, E-Mail: certbund@bsi.bund. de, WWW: https://www.bsi.bund.de/certbund/
* DFN-CERT, Center for Secure Network Services GmbH, DFN-CERT, DFN-CERT Services GmbH, Sachsenstra e 5, D-20097 Hamburg, Telephone: 040-808077-555, Fax: -556, E-Mail: info @ dfn-cert.de, WWW: http://www.dfn-cert.de.
* There are CERTs at various universities who also provide information publicly. An example is the RUS-CERT of the University of Stuttgart (see http://cert.uni-stuttgart.de).
* Manufacturer and system-specific as well as security-specific newsgroups or mailing lists. In such forums, references to existing or suspected security vulnerabilities or errors in various operating systems and other software products are discussed. Most current are usually the English-language mailing lists such as Bugtraq, of which there are publicly accessible archives in many places, for example under http://www.securityfocus.com.
* Some IT journals also regularly publish articles with reviews of new vulnerabilities in different products.


Ideally, administrators and the IT security officer should be aware of vulnerabilities in at least two different locations. It is advisable to use an independent source of information besides the manufacturer's information.

In any case, the administrators should also use product-specific sources of information from the manufacturer in order to know, for example, whether patches or updates are actually provided for a certain product when security gaps are discovered. For products for which the manufacturer no longer provides security patches, it must be checked in good time whether a deployment under these circumstances is still to be held responsible and by what additional measures a protection of the affected Nevertheless, systems can be guaranteed.



