#M 2.250 Defining an outsourcing strategy
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: administration / management, specialist responsible

The commitment to an outsourcing service provider takes place in the long term, is initially costly and associated with risks. Good planning of the outsourcing project is therefore important. In addition to the economic, technical and organizational boundary conditions, the safety-relevant aspects must also be considered. The following aspects should be considered:

* Corporate strategy (flexibility, dependencies, future plans),
* Feasibility study with compilation of framework conditions,
* Business aspects with cost-benefit estimation.


After initial strategic considerations, it is necessary to clarify which business processes, tasks or applications are generally eligible for outsourcing.

At the same time, the importance of the legal framework should not be underestimated. Laws could, for example, generally prohibit the outsourcing of certain core tasks of an institution, or at least lay down extensive requirements and require the participation of supervisory authorities. As a rule, the client remains fully responsible for his services or products vis-à-vis his clients or public authorities, irrespective of whether individual areas of responsibility have been outsourced.

Unfortunately, information security is often neglected at the beginning of planning, although it is of central importance. This applies both to technical and organizational security aspects, which play a decisive role in the outsourcing scenario. In general, it should be remembered that:

* The decision to outsource is usually not easy to revise. The commitment to the service provider may be very long term.
* A service provider often has access to data and IT resources of the client. The outsourcing client thereby loses sole and complete control over data and resources. Depending on the outsourcing project, this then also concerns data with high protection requirements.


* For the technical implementation of the outsourcing project, it is necessary to transfer data between client and service provider. This automatically results in an increased risk potential.
* As a rule, it is necessary that employees or subcontractors of the outsourcing service provider (and therefore outsiders) have to work temporarily in the client's premises. This also results in an increased risk potential.
* As part of an outsourcing project, new processes and workflows need to be designed, implemented, and executed. The consequences of the necessary changes must be clarified and assessed.


* For each outsourcing service provider, there is a significant conflict of interest: on the one hand, it has to provide the service as cost-effectively as possible in order to maximize its profits; on the other, the client expects high service quality, flexibility and customer-friendly behavior , This point is empirically the most frequently underestimated. While IT managers tend to be very critical and cost-conscious, and are very skeptical of promises made by manufacturers and consultants, outsourcing is often the opposite. It is all too easy for the client to spoil the advertising slogans of the service providers in the expectation that they will be able to significantly reduce their IT costs. However, practice teaches that, at the very most, services will be provided in the future that have been contracted from the beginning. If it turns out that the quality of service is inadequate because the client expects services that he considers self-evident, in contrast to the outsourcing service provider, improvements are generally not expected without high additional costs. Every IT manager who thinks about outsourcing should do his / her best to calculate at what cost a service provider has to provide the agreed service, so that both the client and the contractor benefit from the contract. With this calculation it may turn out that a serious performance at the promised low cost is highly unlikely.


In order to define the outsourcing strategy, an individual security analysis must always be carried out. Only in this way can it finally be determined how existing business processes or information networks can be delimited and separated so that parts of them can be outsourced. In this early phase of the project, the safety concept will of course only describe frame conditions and will not contain any detailed measures. The safety analysis should be carried out according to the methodology described in the IT-Grundschutz approach:

* It should zum chat a structural analysis are performed to determine the current state.
* Thereafter, a protection requirement determination takes place.
* Building on this, appropriate security measures must be selected and adapted to the respective framework conditions of the outsourcing project. In doing so, the need for action, the priorities and the costs for the measures to be implemented must be identified. The results can then be included in particular in the consideration of the profitability of the outsourcing project.


If the protection requirements of important systems or applications are high or the modeling of the information network according to IT-Grundschutz is not possible, an additional safety analysis (eg risk analysis) must be performed. Once the safety-related hazards have been analyzed, it can be determined whether and how this should be addressed.

Ultimately, however, a certain residual risk will have to be borne by the outsourcing client. The results of the safety analysis are directly included in the cost-benefit estimation.

When developing a promising long-term outsourcing strategy, management must not focus solely on cost savings. The impact of an outsourcing project on the performance of the task, the business model and the service or product portfolio must also be taken into account. Should standard processes or core business processes be outsourced? It is important in this context that the ability to determine and control the requirements of IT itself is adequately maintained. In particular, the further development and maintenance of self-developed IT systems and applications should be considered.

The following notes highlight advantages and disadvantages of outsourcing with regard to information security.

* Advantage: It is possible to establish new services (eg by diversification or expansion of the product range). As a result, however, the specified level of security must also be ensured for the expanded offer.


* Advantage: There is more flexibility, for example, systems, resources or manpower requirements can be adapted or extended more quickly, as the outsourcing service provider may also be able to purchase this at short notice. Fixed costs can be converted into variable ones. As a result, however, the enhancements (eg of IT systems) can also result in new security problems.


* Advantage: Ideally, the outsourcing project can achieve a better level of security as the service provider employs specialists so that new, safety-critical applications can be operated as well. It is very time-consuming, especially in information security, and requires a great deal of technical knowledge to regularly evaluate the flood of security notices, security bulletins, update messages and bug reports, to recognize their relevance and, if necessary, to take the right steps quickly. Increasing complexity of the hardware and software solutions offered, ever shorter product cycles, increasing networking and increasing user demands make it extremely difficult to find the right balance between security and greater functionality time and again.
* Advantage: Especially in companies or authorities with a small IT department, individual employees often have a high priority. If they are not available (illness, holidays) or leave the institution, serious security problems can arise because there is no equivalent representative. Service providers, on the other hand, can usually rely on several equally qualified experts who can represent each other.
* Advantage: Outsourcing is often seen by some institutions as perhaps the only way to enforce a reshaping of their business processes and IT systems against internal resistance. As part of the outsourcing project, a heterogeneous system landscape is to be cleared up and standardized.
* Disadvantage: If the know-how of the specialists employed by the outsourcing service provider is not appropriate, serious security gaps can result. In addition, if there is no internal expertise to control the level of security at the outsourcing service provider, security holes may not even be detected.
* Disadvantage: An expansion of the service offering or the extension of IT systems is no longer solely a decision of the own management. The outsourcing service provider must always be involved in the discussion. Not infrequently, service providers compensate favorable conditions at the conclusion of the contract by high demands at later special requests or new requirements of the client. The resulting cost pressure often leads to savings in information security.
* Disadvantage: The effort for the control of the service quality must not be underestimated. If deficits are detected, these can be difficult and time-consuming to remedy, especially if there are disagreements between client and service provider. If questions of information security are not answered promptly, security gaps may arise.


A comprehensive cost-benefit analysis of each outsourcing project is essential for strategic and commercial success. It is therefore important to know all the parameters and also to appreciate them correctly.

The strategic value of the following resources must be protected under the framework of the outsourcing project:

* Know-how
* Employee
* IT systems and applications


In the cost-benefit analysis, studies and reports from other institutions can provide valuable information.

Finally, the outsourcing strategy has to be documented. The goals, opportunities and risks of the outsourcing project should be clearly described. From this point of view, it is also advisable to integrate the experience gained as part of an ongoing outsourcing project into the documentation of the outsourcing strategy. It should also be pointed to wrong decisions and derived recommendations for the future.



