#M 2.124 Appropriate selection of database software
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

When procuring new database software, it is possible to select it from the outset in such a way that a high level of security can be achieved in later operation with only a small additional staff and organizational overhead.

At the outset, the scope and purpose of the database system must be clarified to formulate the requirements for availability, integrity and confidentiality. Furthermore, the requirements with regard to the amounts of data to be processed, the processing speed and the throughput must be quantified. From this, the properties to be fulfilled for the database software to be procured are derived, such as eg. Availability for specific hardware platforms or operating systems or scope of necessary security mechanisms. In this planning stage it can already be recognized whether and to what extent hardware has to be retrofitted or retrofitted for the later operation of the database system. Based on the availability requirements, the required monitoring options must also be defined, ie. It must be determined which database states should be identifiable in which form (eg by logging in a file), as well as the type of notification of responsible persons or groups of persons about critical states of the database (eg.  B by a message on the console).

In particular, the following points should be considered when purchasing database software:

* The database software must have its own suitable mechanisms for identifying and authenticating users (see M 2.128 Access control of a database).
* The database software must have suitable mechanisms for resource limitation (see M 4.73 Definition of upper limits for selectable data sets).
* If confidential data is to be managed in the database, unauthorized access must be prevented. In this case, the database software to be procured must provide corresponding access control mechanisms (see M 2.129 Access control of a database). It should also be possible to group several users with the same access rights to groups. A distinction between the group of administrators and the group of users is obligatory. Furthermore, a separation of different administrator roles should be supported (see M 2.131 Division of administration activities for database systems).
* There are databases with different levels of access protection mechanisms. Similar security mechanisms can also be offered in different granularity. It must be decided in advance which access protection is required and which database software meets the defined security requirements. The main reasons for this are the possibilities of restricting access rights to database objects and the data itself. Examples: Users can be deprived of the right to create or modify database objects (eg tables). Although users can get read access to a table, modifying access rights can be excluded at the same time. For certain tables or specific fields of a table, access may be prohibited depending on the user. Users do not receive any access rights to data sets with specific characteristics (eg a clerk from Bonn does not have access to the data of a clerk from Cologne).
* Some manufacturers offer both the ability to define groups and roles. As a result, a more sophisticated access control to the database objects can be realized. Prior to this, the relevant requirements must be clarified and compared with the database software products available for selection.
* The database software must also be checked for its monitoring and control mechanisms. The relevant requirements must be defined and compared with the performance profiles of the products (examples see M 2.133 Control of the log files of a database system or M 2.126 Creation of a database security concept).
* It must be checked whether the database software supports role separation between the administrator and the auditor. It must be possible to set up the role of a reviser, who alone is capable of evaluating and deleting the log files. This prevents potential manipulation by the database administrator.
* To protect database integrity, the database software must have a complete transactional system that complies with the ACID principle. This requirement is today met by all major relational database management systems.
* There must be mechanisms to back up the database (see M 6.49 Database Backup). In advance, it must be clarified in advance which options for data backup the database software must provide. For example, a partial database backup is not available for all products available on the market. In this specific case, it is therefore necessary to check whether the created data protection concept can also be implemented with the available mechanisms.


On the basis of these criteria, the database systems available for selection must be checked and evaluated. It is then to select the software that best meets the specific requirements. Further requirements must be covered either by additional products or by in-house development. However, it should be clarified before the procurement to which database software which additional products are available in order not to have to resort to expensive in-house developments.

Most database management systems typically have several different versions available on the market. The individual versions of the same database management system differ in their functionality, including in security-relevant areas. The strong competition leads to the fact that some manufacturers also deliver software that has not yet been fully developed, which then has to be reckoned with errors and limited functionality.

In a test phase, it should therefore be checked whether the selected database software also fulfills the required functions in the given operating environment. This applies in particular to the performance requirements and the necessary emergency preparedness mechanisms.

Prior to procurement, experience from comparable installations should also be used.



