#M 2.563 Selection of a trustworthy supplier and logistics chain as well as a qualified manufacturer for embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: procurer

Circuits and chips are often functionally described and physically produced by different institutions. Many well-known chip manufacturers as well as highly specialized small companies are so-called fabless companies. They develop circuits and chips, but do not produce them themselves. Manufactured by specialized companies, so-called silicon foundries, all over the world, mostly outside of Europe. The manufactured chips are delivered from there directly to the customers or the wholesaler. Even the well-known distributors are scattered around the world.

The system manufacturer must therefore ensure that the manufactured components comply with the specifications exactly, do not contain hidden additional functions and comply with all quality requirements. During storage, during intermediate trading and during transport, it must not be possible to manipulate the programmable logic components or to exchange components. Effective controls must be carried out in the logistics chain. Manufacturers and logistics companies should be certified according to recognized standards.

With increased protection requirements manufacturers and their subcontractors are to be qualified, whether they are trustworthy to manufacture hardware and software. The proof must be documented. A manufacturer qualification must be renewed regularly.

All third party development and repair companies should not be aware of any information about the embedded system and the data on it. For this an IT security concept has to be planned and implemented. The employees are suitable for training and sensitization. There are regulations for the disclosure of information. Preconditions are to be reported and categorized. After an incident, the regulations must be checked and adjusted accordingly in the case of gaps or soft claims. On the part of the client, it must be ensured that external companies implement the requirements of the security concept.



