#M 2.426 Integration of patch and change management into the business processes
Responsible for initiation: change manager, authority / company management

Responsible for implementation: Change Manager

Depending on the nature of the changes made, it may be necessary to restart an application or IT system, which may result in their being unusable for a short period of time in productive operation. In addition, even carefully performed tests can not always avoid the possibility of difficulties with the application in question or even the stoppage and failure of a system due to the distribution of hardware or software changes.

For this reason, regardless of the tests carried out, the current situation of the affected business processes must also be taken into account. It can z. B. It may make sense to make a hardware or software change a few days later, even though the affected system is currently classified as critical to security. The system may provide important services to which the institution relies. Management could assess the risk of disruption to business processes through patch and change management more than the risk of a pending vulnerability.

In order to distribute hardware and software changes, it is therefore necessary to notify all parties with regard to the upcoming changes and the expected downtime. The individual parties include all departments that need the system. In particular, departments whose tasks are dependent on the applications and IT systems concerned must be involved in the prioritization of changes and scheduling.

There must be at least one level of escalation over the change manager and the CAB which, if necessary, takes the decision on the prioritization (see M 2.422 Managing Change Requests). This level of escalation must be chosen from the management level of the institution.



