#M 2.530 Planning and preparation of migrations
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

Migrations of IT infrastructures are usually very complex projects with a large number of influencing factors and possible sources of error. As a rule, migrations are only successful if they have been carefully planned and prepared in advance.

In order not to fail because of the complexity of the topic, it is advisable to choose a proven process model. In practice, neither pure top-down approaches with a one-time complete changeover nor a pure point-by-point bottom-up approach have been proven. The culmination of an iterative, prioritized mutual coordination of business processes and IT models from the specialist departments and from the business requirements is the goal. Maturity models can help plan the next development step of an iteration.

Once the goals to be achieved in the next migration step are determined and the services to be migrated are identified, the planning step derives the requirements for the IT from the business objectives (including the security requirements). The migration phase involves the technical implementation of these requirements in the form of applications and systems, which are then transferred to operation. This cycle is repeated until the desired degree of ripeness is achieved. In each iteration, it is necessary to examine which adjustments must be made to (old) applications and interfaces.

Once the time frame and scope of migration have been determined, the necessary technical infrastructure must be planned. Dimensioning issues in particular are important here, because web service environments generally differ significantly from the existing environments with regard to the required resource parameters. It makes sense to carry out load tests, or at the very least make use of the expertise in terms of resource equipment.

Migration planning has to take into account which systems and applications should be migrated and when downtime is needed and justifiable. For unexpected complications, abort criteria and fallback scenarios must be defined that can be used to reset the environment to an operational state.

Particular attention should be given to the resulting dependencies of suppliers and standards. The latter are to be selected carefully and should be observed in their development as well as possibly becoming known security gaps in the standards themselves.

If special systems are to be used that have not been used before - such as an XML Firewall as Application Level Gateway - they must first be extensively tested with regard to the required functionality and included in the security concept.

To the extent that a migration offers the opportunity to make centralized services such as identity management or a PKI usable in the future, these services must also be considered and additionally secured. In particular, if a single sign-on is planned, the implications for security must be checked exactly, see also M 4.456 Authentication for web services, M 4.455 Authorization for web services and M 4.453 Use of a security token service ( STS).

The specific risks that result from a migration relate, on the one hand, to the associated changes in the architecture. The security measures required for the target architecture must therefore be identified and taken into account in advance (based on the relevant modules or a supplementary safety analysis and, if appropriate, an additional risk analysis). It should also be noted that migration can create dependencies that can significantly increase the availability requirements. On the other hand, migration itself poses risks as it can be associated with both high costs and a long project duration. Both classes of risks must be analyzed and documented in the course of migration planning.

For an extensive migration or a profound conversion of the architecture, it is also strongly recommended to develop your own security concept and treat the result of the migration in the existing security concept.

This is especially true when migrating to a central service bus (usually ESB, Enterprise Service Bus). This represents a potential central point of failure and should therefore be adequately accounted for in contingency planning if there are requirements for the availability of the SOA.

Not to be neglected is also the question of knowledge transfer: Due to the profound conversion of the architecture, the administrators, but ultimately also the specialists, demand a rethinking, which must be taken into account in the planning phase with corresponding time and training is.

A migration is always a long-term and strategic program that, in order to be successful, must be supported and managed by the management and be brought to life by the participants throughout their lifetime.



