#M 2.549 Creation of a client concept
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer, IT manager

Frequently, several institutions share central IT infrastructures or services of a service provider. In this case, applications can also be jointly operated and used, with data storage and data processing. As a result of legal requirements or due to business and business secrets must be separated. In these cases, there is often talk of multi-client applications, with each serving institution being assigned a client area, or client for short.

An example of this in the public administration are register applications such as the ePersonal status register, in which several municipalities as independent data processing centers store and manage their personal status data. Cloud-based applications (also known as Software as a Service, SaaS) are another example.

In each of these cases, a suitable client concept must ensure that the applications are operated as a client. This means that every data processing unit within its area, ie its client system, can implement the technical specifications (eg with regard to the scope of logging and storage periods) and fulfill its control obligations. The client concept is to be created by the operator of the multi-client application and made available to the using institutions. They must ensure that the client concept provides adequate security for their protection needs before using such systems or services together with other users. The client concept is therefore part of the security concept that has to be set for an outsourcing project (see B 1.11 Outsourcing, in particular M 2.254 Development of a security concept for the outsourcing project).

From a data protection point of view, too, requirements regarding the separation of clients must be observed. Information about this can be found in the Orientierungshilfe Mandantenf higkeit of the working group Technology of the Data Protection Commissioners of the Federal Government and the Länder.

In addition, when an application is newly procured, created, or substantially modified, it must first be ensured that this application can effectively separate clients (see M 2.552 Creating a specification).

A client concept should at least consider the following points:

* Suitable legal bases: Legal requirements must not preclude a joint, multi-tenant process operation. Furthermore, it must be ensured that the technical design of client separation meets the protection requirements of the data in the respective client.
* The Completeness of Transactions: Data processing performed in one client may not result in the data being changed or readable in other clients.
* Configurative independence of clients among each other: There should be at least two administrative levels. The first level is used for client administration. Here, client systems are set up and deleted, multi-client configurative settings are made, the roles of the tenant administrators are assigned, cross-client logging is initiated, and their revision is carried out. The second level is used to administer a client system: Here, the authorizations are assigned in the client system, client-internal configurations are carried out, client-internal logging is configured, and log revision is performed.
* Separation of authorization contexts: Each client has its own, completed authorization context. The authorizations in one client system may not affect other client systems. The assignment or modification of authorizations by the administrators of the respective client must not affect authorizations in other clients.
* There must be an administrative level for tenant administration on the part of the operator, but it should not have permission to process data within a tenant.
* Separation of logging contexts: Log revisers of a mandate system may not have access to log data of other client systems. For example, clients can have their own log files. Another solution could be for an institution to access its client's log data through filters or report generators set up by the service provider.
* Restricting cross-client data processing: The client administration level should generally not allow data to be processed within a client outside of the client administration. The exchange of data between clients should take place via defined and suitably secured interfaces (see interface concept).


The implementation of these requirements can be done in a variety of ways. An outstanding role is played by a suitable role and authorization concept within applications. In addition, at the infrastructure and service level. B.Virtualisierungstechniken be used as:

* Use of various databases (also called instances) in a common database management system (DBMS)
* VPD (Virtual Private Database) at the service level of databases
* Storage of tenant-tagged data sets in a shared database and shared tables, so that client separation occurs through the application.
* Virtual machines at the system level
* VLAN (Virtual LAN), VRF (Virtual Routing and Forwarding), VPN (Virtual Private Network) in the network infrastructure (see also M 5.62 Suitable logical segmentation)


The client should check whether the solution chosen by the service provider for client separation is effective.



