#M 2.326 Planning Group Policy for Clients as of Windows XP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Group Policy represents a variety of user and configuration settings that are associated with computers, sites, domains, or organizational units (OUs). When applying one or more group policies, changes are actually made in the registry of the affected systems.

Group Policy provides an easy way to control client behavior and also define security settings and login and logout scripts. Group Policy allows you to control the behavior of operating systems and restrict users' access to specific functionality of the system by using GPOs. A Group Policy Object (GPO) summarizes a given set of configuration parameters. For each parameter, a specific value can be given, which may only come from a limited range of values. In general, the value can not be selected defined. Then the default settings for this parameter automatically apply.

Since the introduction on Windows 2000, the guidelines have been constantly updated with new content. Under Windows 8, the number of possible settings has risen to over 3,600.

The planning and introduction of client group policies should be performed using a standardized process such as the following:

* Determine client application and security requirements and define the client configuration
* Deciding which settings should be managed centrally
* test installation
* Documentation of Group Policy managed settings (including checklist), customize client deployment concept
* Export settings a. on clients using gpedit.msc, rsop.msc or gpresultb. or use the domain controller to set Eventlog filters for GPO events and regularly check that the GPO object (s) do not cause any errors and are effective. These can include:
* Events may be redirected to a management server and monitored (for example, System Center server) or
* on clients using GPLogView.exe (available separately from Microsoft).


The group policies are the primary implementation mechanism that is recommended in M 4.244 Secure system configuration of Windows client operating systems, recommended security settings. They can be used as a local GPO for setting parameters for a concrete IT system or a specific user. When operating in an Active Directory-based environment, GPOs can also be deployed at the site and domain level and at the level of individual organizational units.

The parameters within a group policy object are summarized thematically in a tree-like or file system-like manner. At the top level, there is a general dichotomy in settings for IT systems and for users. This allows both the definition of IT system and user-based constraints. The settings defined in the user part also define application-specific restrictions. If additional administrative templates are imported, further applications such as Microsoft Office can be configured centrally via Group Policy. User-specific and application-specific group policies should be used.

The user and IT system parts of a group policy can be deactivated individually, so that the respective deactivated part is not evaluated when applying the group policy. This creates speed advantages in some application scenarios. The deactivation of an unused part of a group policy should be decided on the basis of the individual requirements.

When using a Windows version from Windows Vista, the User Account Control (UAC) simplifies the use of local administrator privileges for normal users. Although the administrator rights are always earmarked and limited in time, users could also change security-relevant system settings. Therefore, security-related settings should only be configured via Active Directory Group Policy. As a result, they can no longer be changed locally.



## Examples 
* Local Group Policy
* Site GPOs
* Domains GPOs
* GPOs of organizational units




