#M 2.127 Inferenzprvention
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to protect personal and other confidential data of a database system, in principle every user should only be allowed access to the data necessary for his activities. All other information that is additionally in the database must be hidden from it.

For this purpose, the access rights to tables up to their fields must be defined. This can be done by using views and grants (see M 2.129 Access control of a database). Thus, it is only possible for a user to view and process the data intended for him. If he asks database queries that want to access other information, DBMS will reject them.

On the other hand, other protection requirements apply to statistical databases containing data on groups of people, sections of the population or the like. In a statistical database, individual personal records are subject to privacy, but statistical information is accessible to all users.

Here it must be prevented that knowledge about the data of a group can be used to deduce the data of an individual member of this group. It must also be prevented that by knowing the information stored in the database or the filing structures of the data in the database, the anonymity of this data can be circumvented by appropriately formulated database queries (for example, if the result set of a Database query contains only one record). This issue is called inference problem, the protection against such techniques inference prevention.

Even if the data of a statistical database is anonymised, inference techniques can be used to restore the personal reference to specific data sets. A rejection of certain requests (eg requests with only one or a few result tuples) is generally not sufficient, as the refusal of a response by the DBMS may also contain information.

By creating different statistics, the anonymity of the data can also be lost. Such an indirect attack aims to draw conclusions from several statistics on the personal data of a single individual. A protective measure in this case is not to allow the release of so-called sensitive statistics, which is called suppressed inference prevention. Another possibility is the distortion of such statistics through controlled rounding (same statistics are equal to round) or the restriction to statistically relevant subsets, with the requirement that same requests always refer to the same subsets. This method is called distorting inference prevention.

If further requirements are placed on the confidentiality of the data, their encryption is required (see M 4.72 Database Encryption).



