#M 2.87 Installation and configuration of standard software
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The released software will be installed on the designated IT systems according to the installation instructions. In addition to the programs to be installed, the installation instructions also contain configuration parameters and the setup of the hardware and software environment.

Deviations from the installation instructions must be approved by the approval authority.

If users are to install the software themselves, they must be provided with an installation instruction that allows them to install themselves. At least the pilot installation by a selected typical user should be accompanied by the IT department to verify the understanding of the installation instructions.

Since standard software is developed for a variety of applications, it usually contains more functions than are required for the fulfillment of the specialist task. In order to reduce the number of problems and errors when working with the software, only the actual required functionality should be installed. Functionality that can lead to security problems may not be released.

Both before and after the installation of software, a complete backup should be performed. The first backup can be used to recover a consolidated touchdown point during subsequent installation problems. After the successful installation, a complete data backup should be carried out again, so that later problems can be restored to the state after the successful installation of the product.

The successful installation will be reported in writing to the responsible body for the start of the effective operation.

Optionally, the installation can be accompanied by the use of a so-called delta tool, which documents all changes in an IT environment between two determinable times. This documentation of changes is particularly useful when uninstalling the software.

When using a new product, it may be necessary to take over data inventories that were generated with a predecessor product. If the tests have shown that this can lead to difficulties, assistance should be provided for the users or the acquisition of old data must be carried out centrally by trained personnel.



