#M 2.137 Procurement of a suitable data backup system
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Much of the errors that occur when creating or restoring a backup are errors. Therefore, when purchasing a backup system, attention should not only be paid to its performance, but also to its operability and, in particular, its tolerance for user errors.

When choosing backup software, care should be taken that it meets the following requirements:

* The backup software should be able to detect a bad medium as well as a damaged medium in the backup drive.
* It should work well with existing hardware.
* It should be possible to have backups performed automatically at pre-selectable times or at adjustable intervals without the need for manual intervention (except for the provision of backup data carriers if necessary).
* It should be possible to automatically inform one or more selected users about the backup result and any error messages via e-mail or similar mechanisms. The execution of backups including the backup result and possible error messages should be saved in a log file.
* The backup software should support backing up the backup media with a password, or even better with encryption. Furthermore, it should be able to store the saved data in compressed form.
* By specifying suitable include and exclude lists for the file and directory selection, it should be possible to specify exactly which data is to be saved and which is not. It should be possible to combine these lists into backup profiles, save them and reuse them for later backups.
* It should be possible to select the data to be backed up, depending on the date of its creation or its last modification.
* The backup software should support the generation of logical and physical full copies as well as incremental copies (change backups).
* The data to be backed up should also be able to be stored on hard disks and network drives.
* The backup software should be able to perform an automatic comparison of the backed-up data with the original after the backup, and perform an appropriate comparison between the reconstructed data and the contents of the backup data after data recovery.
* When recovering files, it should be possible to choose whether to restore the files to the original location or to another disk or directory. Likewise, it should be possible to control the behavior of the software in case there is already a file of the same name at the destination. You should be able to choose whether this file will always be overwritten, never or only in case it is older than the file to be reconstructed, or that in this case an explicit request will be made.


If the data protection can be password protected with the program used, this option should be used. The password must then be stored securely (see M 2.22 Storing the password).

Most operating systems come with backup programs. However, not all fulfill the demands on products for professional and comfortable data backups. But if no such products are available, the system-related programs should be used.



