#M 2.332 Establishment of meeting, presentation and training rooms
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, head of organization

Responsible for implementation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of Organization

Meeting, event and training rooms must either be permanently set up for one of the above purposes or be furnished in such a way that they can be optimally adapted to the respective current use.

In training rooms, the workplaces should be designed with regard to the number and arrangement of the IT equipment as well as the space available in such a way that mutual interference is avoided and there is sufficient space at each location for documents, writing pads etc. easy to handle.

The meeting, event and training rooms must be equipped appropriately. This includes, for example, communication and media support such as projectors or flipcharts. The following elements should be taken into account, among others:

* It should make sense there are electrical connections where beamer, laptops or other consumers are to be set up. They should also be present in sufficient numbers for typically brought IT systems such as laptops. This also serves information security, otherwise IT equipment may fall down or otherwise be damaged by wild wiring and carelessness.
* The power supply of a meeting, event and training room should be built from the last subdivision, separate from other rooms. As a result, impairments of the energy supply do not affect other rooms. Optimal is a separate sub-distribution in the meeting, event and training room. This eliminates the need to search for the response of a fuse element located anywhere in the building sub-distribution.
* There should be at least one landline telephone line to ensure accessibility during events. This is particularly important if mobile phones are to remain unused during events or even a mobile phone ban has been issued. For internal connections, it must be permanently unlocked. For external incoming and outgoing connections, it must only be activated by authorized persons to protect against misuse.
* It is necessary to consider whether power outlets should be set up for connection to the Internet or internal networks. Since this can cause a large number of dangers for internal networks, such network accesses must be adequately protected (see also M 2.204 Prevention of unsecured network access). If internet access is required, it should be considered that this should be done separately, not via the intranet.
* When setting up a WLAN in meeting, event and training rooms, all necessary security measures must be used.




