#M 2.550 Appropriate control of application development
Responsible for initiation: Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: Responsible for the individual applications

If standard software can not be procured for a particular application, the development of individual software is required. This can be done in the institution itself or with the help of external contractors.

In addition to economic aspects, proper control of software development is also important from a security point of view because it helps to avoid errors in applications and security gaps. The sooner errors and security risks are identified, the easier it is to fix them.

For the control of the development and the project management a suitable control and project management model should be defined, which takes into account the special circumstances of the institution and the methods of software development projects used there. This should take into account the following aspects:

* The staff envisaged for development should have the necessary qualifications.
* To control the creation and maintenance of applications, an overall process covering all phases of the lifecycle (Application Lifecycle Management, ALM) should be implemented. Suitable phases of software development should be taken into account in order to be able to subdivide and process the necessary activities (business process modeling, requirements analysis, software design, implementation, testing, delivery, etc.). For the successful introduction of the overall process, the careful description and delineation of the required roles and functional agents has proven to be particularly important.
* For the orderly execution of the application project the necessary conditions should be created. These include the appointment of a project manager, the filling of the roles in the overall process described and the selection of a procedural model for the development, which is suitable for the respective institution as well as the type and size of the software project. This may, for example, provide for sequential passage through the phases (waterfall model) or iterative traversal (spiral model).
* The risks involved in software development must be assessed and treated. This includes specific security risks, which are usually reduced by using security functions, and risks in the development project itself, such as inadequate documentation, inadequate quality assurance measures, exceeding the timetable etc. The risks in the development project can also be taken into account have an indirect effect on the security of the application, for example if time-pressure does not or only insufficiently implements security functions.
* The quality aspects of the development process, which are also important for the overall safety, must be sufficiently taken into account. For example, well-documented and structured code not only makes it easier to maintain, it also helps identify security-related issues more quickly.


Software development has resulted in a number of process models and best practices. These can be roughly divided into two categories:

* Heavy-weight process models: These are formal in nature, tend to follow a predetermined schedule, and place strong emphasis on contracts and documentation. They are particularly suitable for large project teams or in the case of a very formal relationship between client and contractor and require a comprehensive requirement clarification at the beginning of the project. Well-known representatives are the V-Modell XT and the Rational Unified Process (RUP).
* Lightweight, agile process models: They focus more on the personal interaction of the project participants and less on the formal implementation and are suitable for smaller projects or projects with intensive involvement of the client. They offer the opportunity to specify vague requirements during the course of the project or to respond flexibly to changes in the requirements. Examples of agile process models are Scrum, Kanban, Crystal Clear.


Process models can be combined: For example, working methods from eXtreme Programming (Pair Programming) can be used with Scrum. Within a V-Modell XT project, small development cycles can be created as scrum sprints.

The subareas and processes relevant to software development are described, inter alia, in:

* IEEESoftware Body of Knowledge (SWEBOK) and


* ISO / IEC12207 Systems and software engineering - software life cycle processes


There are also various process models and methods for quality assurance in the software development process. These include CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration) and SPICE (Software Process Improvement and Capability Determination) and ISO / IEC 15504 Information technology - Process assessment.

Also relevant in this area is the ISO 250xx series of standards. ISO / IEC 25000 Software Engineering - Quality Criteria and Evaluation of Software Products (SQuaRE) - Guide to SquaRE gives an overview of the basic concepts and principles of this series.

It must be determined which quality assurance method and which concrete method is used in the institution or for the respective project. For economic reasons, not all types of tests are possible at all possible depths. Therefore, it must be decided which of them are appropriate at what time and for which parts of the application. It must be ensured that the safety requirements are sufficiently covered.



