#M 2.444 Mission planning for virtual IT systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In the case of virtual IT systems, further considerations must be taken into account in addition to the prerequisites for secure server operation already specified in M 2.315 Planning the Server Use. Additional requirements regarding the planning of virtual IT systems are described below.



## Examples 
* It must be checked whether the operating systems and applications used are suitable for operation in virtualized IT systems.
* It must be ensured that the virtualization product is suitable for the intended use of the IT systems.
* There should be no virtualization features such as. Snapshots that can cause problems with the application (see also M 4.347 Disabling Snapshots of Virtual IT Systems).
* For the applications, no hardware components such as eg. Software protection modules (dongles) or ISDN cards are needed that can not be made available to the virtual IT systems within the virtual infrastructure.
* All virtual IT systems must be completely covered by the inventory of the information network, for example to avoid sub-licensing or to operate systems whose purpose is unknown.
* The procedures and planning and operational preparations required for the commissioning of physical IT systems must be appropriately and meaningfully transferred to the virtual IT systems. If, for example, physical IT systems are labeled with a name and IP address, this is not possible with virtual IT systems. However, these specifications can be implemented in the naming of these virtual IT systems in the management software.
* Together with the server and application operators, realistic and appropriate performance and resource requirements for the virtual IT systems must be established before the systems are put into operation. When performance requirements are determined, it is important to consider whether performance limitations can be met in the event of occasional peak loads. For example, scripts for automated database content processing are often not time-critical and therefore do not perform at their maximum performance be heard.
* It is to be regulated how routine activities are to be carried out during the operation of virtual IT systems. It must be ensured that activities such as starting and stopping virtual IT systems, creating and deleting and resetting to snapshots are coordinated with the server operators and application owners.
* The performance of virtual IT systems is to be monitored. It must be ensured that their performance requirements are adequately met.
* It is a process of establishing bottlenecks in the consumption of processor power, memory, and disk space, and responding appropriately to such bottlenecks.




