#M 2.330 Regular testing of security policies and their implementation on Windows clients as of Windows XP
Initiation Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

In order to be able to detect violations of the current security guidelines for clients as of Windows XP, regular checks are necessary. These tests should be an integral part of an organizational process. The results of the checks must be documented in order to detect recurrent cases.

The following aspects should be considered:

* The existing security policies must be checked for their timeliness and consistency. Over time, of course, new insights into security-related aspects of Windows operating systems will be gained. These are to be taken into account when checking the security guidelines. The security policies may need to be adjusted and re-implemented.
* The security guidelines of Windows systems must be implemented carefully. The implementation is also to be checked regularly. Automated tools such as secedit or the Microsoft Security Compliance Manager can be used to determine currently implemented settings and their possible differences from the parameter values ??defined in security guidelines (see also M 4.243 Administrative Tools under Windows Client Operating Systems).
* Access permissions in file system, registry and network shares must be checked for their consistency. Users may only have the required permissions.
* User permissions (system permissions) are also to be checked.
* Changes resulting from installing new or removing old software (Windows components or third-party application software) should be considered appropriately. The resulting changes in security settings (GPOs, access permissions, etc.) must be implemented, with a security analysis for critical changes.


In addition, M 2.10 Checking the hardware and software inventory during checks must be taken into account in order to be able to determine and deactivate the use of non-approved software.



