#M 2.279 Create a security policy for routers and switches
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Since routers and switches are central elements of a network, secure and proper operation is particularly important. This can only be ensured if the procedure is integrated into the existing safety specifications.

The central security requirements (the level of security to be achieved) result from the organization-wide security guideline and should be formulated in a specific security guideline for routers and switches in order to concretize and implement the higher-level and generally formulated security guideline in the given context.

In this context, it is to be examined whether, in addition to the organization-wide security guideline, further superordinate specifications such as eg IT guidelines, password guidelines or guidelines for Internet use must be taken into account.

The security policy must be known to all persons and groups involved in the procurement and operation of routers and switches and be the basis for their work. As with all directives, their content and implementation must be regularly reviewed by a higher-level audit.

The security policy should first specify the overall level of security to be achieved and make basic statements about the operation of routers and switches. Here are a few points that should be considered:

* General Configuration Strategy (Liberal or Restrictive)
* Regulations for the work of administrators and auditors: Which access channels should administrators and auditors access to the systems (for example, only locally at the console, via a separate administration network or via encrypted connections)? will have to be documented? In what form is the documentation created and maintained? Is there a four-pronged principle for certain changes? According to which scheme are administration rights granted?
* Specifications for purchasing devices based on a requirement profile
* Specifications for installation and configurationContacting for the initial installation Checking the default settings for security threatsControls for physical access controlUse and configuration of console and other types of accessControl for user and role management, authorization structures (procedure and methods of authentication and authorization, authorization for installation, update, configuration changes etc.). As far as possible, a role concept for the administration should be developed. Regulations for setting up and using VLANs and VPNs (for example: no VLANs with different protection requirements on a switch) Regulations for creating and maintaining documentation, form of documentation: Procedural instructions, Operating manuals If general requirements exist: Authorized and unauthorized services, protocols and networks
* Requirements for safe operationBackup of the administration (for example: access only via secure connections) Use of encryption (standards, keys, areas of application) Requirements for password usage (password rules, areas to be protected by passwords) , Rules and situations for password changes, if applicable, passwords) Tools for operation and maintenance, integration into existing network management Authorizations and procedures for software updates and configuration changes
* LoggingWhat events are logged? Where are the log files stored? How and at what intervals are the logs evaluated?
* Data backup and recovery (see also M 6.91 Data backup and recovery for routers and switches) Integration into the organization-wide data protection concept
* Fault and fault handling, Incident handling rules for the response to malfunctions and technical faults (local support, remote maintenance) Regulations for precautionary emergency precautions (also see M 6.92 Emergency precautions for routers and switches) Integration into the organization-wide network contingency planning concept
* Audit and audit (responsibilities, procedures, integration into a comprehensive audit concept)


The responsibility for the safety guideline lies with the safety management,   changes and deviations from it may take place only in agreement with the safety management.

When creating a security policy, it is advisable to proceed in such a way that first of all a maximum of requirements and specifications for the security of the systems is established. These can then be adapted to the actual circumstances. Ideally, this is achieved so that all necessary aspects are taken into account. For each deficient or deficient specification in the second step, the reason for non-consideration should be documented.



