#M 2.529 Modeling storage solutions
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

In order to achieve adequate overall security for the IT operation, the entire storage solution with all storage systems must be systematically taken into account in the security concept of the institution. With regard to the IT-Grundschutz approach, this means in particular that all storage solutions must be included in the structural analysis and in the modeling.

In the IT-Grundschutz procedure, modeling refers to the assignment of building blocks to the existing target objects (IT systems, applications, rooms, etc.). In principle, the instructions in Chapter 2.2 of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs are to be considered for the modeling of memory solutions. The assignment of the IT-Grundschutz modules depends primarily on the function of the IT system (server, client etc.), on the operating system used (Unix, Windows etc.) and on the applications (database, web server etc.) operated thereon.

Due to the sometimes high complexity of modern memory solutions, some additional modeling hints can be found below which deal with concrete implementation variants.



## Examples 
* The storage solution operator wishes to allow its users access via SOAP or REST, whereby the interface of the storage solution makes this accessibility available.
* The user wants to use a cloud storage solution that uses only SOAP or REST as the access protocol. However, because the user's systems anticipate NFS, FC, or iSCSI, a cloud storage gateway is used to implement protocol translation.




