#M 2.383 Selection of a suitable WLAN standard
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

In the context of WLAN planning, an actual recording is first to be carried out, which transmits the systems operated by the institution into the ISM band at 2.4 GHz and into the 5 GHz band. After this actual recording has been completed, it can be determined from which WLAN standard can be used. The WLAN standards IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.11b and IEEE 802.11g use the 2.4 GHz band, the standards IEEE 802.11a and IEEE 802.11h the 5 GHz band. By choosing the right frequency band, interference from other systems operated by the institution can be avoided. Only the standards IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 802.11i describe security mechanisms.

In addition to this technical consideration, the existing security mechanisms of the individual WLAN standards must be balanced against each other. In general, authentication and encryption should only be used as generally accepted procedures. In this case, the use of recognized cryptographic methods with sufficient key length and collision-free hash methods must be ensured (see also M 2.164 Selection of a suitable cryptographic method). When using WPA or WPA2, the use of authentication methods with mutual authentication is recommended. In this case, the WLAN client must authenticate itself to the access point and vice versa. Either a secret text, the so-called pre-shared key, or the EAP framework with a RADIUS server can be used for authentication. In the case of high protection requirements, the use of device and user authentication is recommended, so that only the institution's known (and configured according to the security guidelines) clients are allowed in the WLAN.

For example, the IEEE 802.11 standard uses static-keyed Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP), which is considered unsafe. WLANs using WEP should therefore not be used without additional security measures in areas where confidential information is to be transmitted. At least the Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) published by the Wi-Fi Alliance must be chosen here. Better is the addition of IEEE 802.11i or WPA2 to secure the WLAN communication. Among other things, the use of pre-shared keys with the Temporal Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) for secure communication in the WLAN is defined here. IEEE 802.11i itself prescribes the Counter Mode with Cipher Block Chaining Message Authentication Code Protocol (CCMP) as a future-oriented method of authentication, which also ensures additional confidentiality through the counter mode procedure. Likewise, CCMP uses the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt the information, as opposed to RC4 in WEP and WPA.

Careful consideration of individual WLAN standards, especially with regard to their security functions, is essential and always to be carried out. Only after a detailed evaluation of the individual standards can a determination be made to a specific WLAN standard. The reasons for the decision must be documented so that they can be traced later.



