#M 2.553 Development of a care concept for applications
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible, IT manager

If an individually developed application is to be used, a maintenance concept is required for operation in order to ensure the functionality and safety of the application during operation (see also M 4.107 Use of manufacturer and developer resources). This should take into account the following aspects that must be included in the change management of the institution (see B .1.14 Patch and change management):

* New or changed technical requirements must be implemented promptly in the application.
* Functional errors occurring in the current application mode (eg incorrect calculations in the case of unexpected case constellations) must be able to be corrected in a timely manner.
* Compatibility with patches and updates of the operating environment used, such as: Operating systems and middleware components such as program libraries, frameworks (eg .NET) and runtime environments (eg Java Runtime Environment, JRE) must be ensured. Ideally, these components can be patched separately from the application software. If the patching of these components is only possible with the application, it must be ensured that the manufacturer of the application software provides appropriate patches for all affected components in a timely manner. It must be ensured that all software components used in the application have patch support by the respective manufacturer. Components that are or are canceled by the respective manufacturer must be replaced in a timely manner.
* The prompt removal of security gaps in the software itself must be provided for.
* It is necessary to determine how to deal with processes for error analysis or optimization. For this purpose, special interfaces can be used or access to protected data can be allowed.


In order to properly prepare for testing (see M 2.83 Testing Standard Software) and apply changes to applications, it has been found useful to distinguish between security patches and functional changes (other patches and updates). Security patches only serve to close security gaps and are generally not associated with functional changes in the application (see also M 3.66 Basic concepts of patch and change management). For this reason, tests and approvals can be carried out in a simplified procedure for security patches (eg as part of a tiered roll-out in the first step to pilot users and through generally granted releases under data protection and security aspects).

When creating the care concept, it should also be clarified which ways information about security gaps, updates and patches are available, eg. Mailing lists from the manufacturers, Computer Emergency Response Teams (CERTs) (see also M 2.35 Obtaining information about security vulnerabilities of the system) and how they are processed in their own patching and modification process (see block B 1.14 Patch and change management) ,



