#M 2.199 Maintaining information security
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

The security process is not just about achieving the desired level of security, but also ensuring that it is permanently secure. To maintain and continuously improve the existing level of security, all security measures should be periodically reviewed.

Both the correct implementation and the feasibility of a security concept must be checked on a regular basis. A distinction needs to be made between checking whether certain measures are appropriate and efficient in order to achieve the security objectives set (checking for completeness or updating), and checking the extent to which security measures are taken in the individual areas implemented (revision of information security).

The security measures planned in the security concept must be implemented in accordance with the implementation plan. The implementation status must be documented. Target dates and resources must be monitored and controlled. The management level is to be informed regularly.

These checks should be carried out at fixed times (at least annually) and may be carried out in between. In particular, insights from safety-relevant intermediate cases, changes in the technical or technical-organizational environment as well as changes in safety requirements or threats require an adaptation of existing safety measures. The results obtained in the individual reviews should be documented. It must also be determined how to handle the verification results, as information security can only be effectively maintained if the necessary corrective measures are taken based on the results of the review.

Occasional unannounced checks should also be carried out, as any known controls often give a distorted picture of the subject under investigation.

Checks should above all be geared to putting an end to defects. For acceptance, it is important that this is identifiable to all stakeholders as the aim of the controls and that the controls do not have the character of a schoolmaster. It therefore makes sense to speak with the participants about possible solutions during a check and to prepare appropriate remedies.

It should be specified in the agency in the company how to coordinate the activities related to these audits. For this purpose, it is necessary to regulate which security measures are to be checked when and by whom, so that duplication of work is avoided and no areas within an institution remain unchecked.

The existing security measures should be checked at least once a year. In addition, they are always to be tested, if

* new business processes, applications or IT components are set up,
* major changes in the infrastructure are made (eg, a move),
* major organizational changes are pending (eg outsourcing),
* the risk situation changes significantly,
* when serious weaknesses or damage events become known.




## Examples 
* organizational measures should be adapted,
* Personnel measures, z. B.Training and awareness-raising measures should be taken or disciplinary measures initiated,
* infrastructural measures, eg. B.Building changes, are to initiate,
* technical measures, eg. Changes to hardware and software or communication links and networks,
* Decisions of the responsible superior (up to the management level) are to be obtained.




