#M 2.488 Web Tracking
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Web tracking refers to the evaluation of user data. B. To track the activities of users of a website. On the basis of these evaluations, advertisements tailored to the user can be displayed, for example, or the popularity of posts can be measured by means of statistics and the web presence can then be optimized. For this purpose, personal information such as the location of the user, the status of a transaction (eg transaction completion on a purchasing platform) and retrieval statistics on web pages can be logged and used.

If external service providers are commissioned to evaluate this user data, it should be noted that these service providers may be able to correlate the user data with the data of other customers and web applications. Based on this, detailed user profiles can be created across applications.

Possible techniques for collecting user data are z. B.

* (persistent) cookies,
* Web bugs (one-pixel large picture elements eg in an e-mail to guide a polling statistics),
* Browser fingerprints (for example, attributes such as installed plug-ins, screen resolution, time zone, user agent, HTTP headers),
* Logging of the IP address.


The techniques can also be combined to more reliably identify users.

If an evaluation of user data, in particular person-related data, is provided or a provider is to take over this service, the legal basis must be checked.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



