#M 2.130 Warranty of database integrity
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, responsible for the individual applications

The integrity assurance and monitoring of a database should ensure the correctness of the data or a correct state of the database. The following techniques should be followed to avoid incorrect data or conditions within a database:

* Access controlThis means the protection of the relevant database against unauthorized access by means of the granting of access rights, as described in M .2.129 Access Control of a Database. This prevents the manipulative modification of data or database objects (such as tables). Responsible for the implementation of access control is the database administrator.A detailed explanation is omitted here and instead on the Ma  nahme M 2.129 Access control of a database referenced
* Synchronization controlSynchronization control is used to prevent inconsistencies that can arise as a result of parallel access to the same database. There are various techniques, such. For example, the locking of database objects (locking) or the allocation of time stamps (time stamps). Responsible for the implementation of the IT applications, if an additional mechanism must be provided, the   It goes beyond the possibilities of the database management system (DBMS). A detailed explanation is omitted, since in general every DBMS performs a synchronization check. The use of a DBMS, which can not afford this, is strongly discouraged.
* Integrity controlThis includes the avoidance of semantic errors or semantically nonsensical states of the database by adhering to and monitoring the required integrity conditions. These can refer to individual relations or relate several relations (referential integrity). Examples are the specification of a primary key for a relation, the definition of ranges of values ??for the individual attributes or the formulation of special conditions by means of an assertion clause. This can be checked by the DBMS automatically by means of a monitor, the z. B. by the use of triggers or StoredProcedures can be realized. Any transactions are possible in principle, but those are rejected by the DBMS that would violate the database consistency. Responsible for the implementation are the persons responsible for the IT applications respectively the technical administrator, if it concerns an implementation of the integrity conditions in the form of relations, primary keys or general database objects. In the context of the conception of an IT application, a data model is to be created which, in addition to the database objects, also represents their relationships with one another, and a technical concept which describes, among other things, conditions under which data can be manipulated. In the context of the realization of an IT application The following points should be noted: The concrete implementation of the data model defined in the conceptual phase must be defined. This includes the definition and creation of tables, indices, value ranges, etc. The definition of triggers or stored procedures is part of the realization of the technical concept. Triggers and stored procedures can be used both within the application (in the programs) and the database (for tables). Triggers that are used at the database level have an independent effect on overlying applications and should therefore be centrally managed. Example: Trigger update for a table: Whenever a record of the table is changed, then the execute instructions defined for the trigger. One of these statements may be the invocation of a stored procedure.


In the context of applications, an integrity assurance can be realized by a suitable use of commit or rollback for the execution or revocation of transactions.



