#M 2.295 System administration of z / OS systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The system administration of a z / OS system is divided into different areas. For many tasks, there are specialists in the data centers who often only perform very specific tasks on the z / OS systems. For system administration, the following recommendations must be observed:



## Examples 
* System Administration System administration (not a special RACF attribute) is responsible for installing and maintaining the z / OS systems. Your authorizations may only allow the necessary work on the system. Access to customer data should only be authorized in exceptional cases (eg during troubleshooting). Such accesses must be coordinated with the respective information owner.
* RACF administrationThe RACF administration (RACF attribute SPECIAL) has the following task: Administration of the RACF security program and creation and deletion of identifiers and authorizations. The RACF administrator assigns and revokes the rights to resources in the z / OS system. This results in a special trust relationship. For security reasons, the number of employees assigned to this role should be kept to a minimum.
* Space Management Space management (RACF attribute OPERATIONS) is responsible for the management of the volumes in z / OS systems. The attribute OPERATIONS allows access to all data of the system. It should be considered to include identifiers with the attribute OPERATIONS in the ACCESS list of a RACF profile with NONE. This prevents access via the OPERATION privilege. However, these files can only be partially managed by space management (eg disk relocation).
* OperatingThe Operating (not a special RACF attribute) is responsible for the operation of the z / OS systems. Since the operators have access to the consoles, they must be operated in access-protected premises. For reasons of traceability, the shift plans of the operating company should be archived.
* AuditsThe auditor (RACF attribute AUDITOR) can view but not change all security-relevant system settings. The auditor compares the current system settings with the default system settings.




