#M 2.408 Planning migration of directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Often, a directory service is not completely rebuilt, but there are already individual directory services in the institutional network, but these are only tuned to the support of specific applications or specialized procedures or provide their service only in a subnet. The latter is particularly true when formerly autonomous parts of an organization are merged into a network as a result of mergers. The migration of a directory service can also be due to the migration of the server landscape to a new hardware, a new operating system, or the change from an operating system version to a more recent one.

In any case, the migration of directory services requires careful planning, as security changes could occur as a result of the migration.

* The integrity of the data must be preserved. The data of the directory services concerned may not be subject to any undesirable changes as a result of the migration. As far as this is planned, all objects of the directory services must be completely migrated.
* The confidentiality of the data must be ensured. It must be ensured that unauthorized access to data can not occur during the migration or after its completion.
* Finally, as an essential part, the availability of directory services during the migration should be maintained to the required extent until the directory service returns to normal operation after a successful migration.


For the migration of a directory service various migration procedures are available, which differ in particular in the additional need for hardware:

* Updating the directory service: With this type of conversion, an update of the directory service is applied to the existing computers. There is no additional hardware necessary. The disadvantage, however, is that the affected computer during the conversion can not be used.
* Completely new installation: The migration happens through a parallel structure of the directory service infrastructure. After installation and configuration, the new directory service goes into active operation. The existing system is not affected and can be used during this time. However, this variant creates a high demand for additional hardware.
* Rolling Migration: This variant is useful if the directory service is divided into hierarchical substructures (partitions). For the respective partition, a parallel structure is initially set up, which is then used after the structure has been completed. The hardware thus freed up can subsequently be used for the parallel construction of the next substructure.


However, a general recommendation for one of the procedures for migrating the directory service can not be given as the appropriate procedure depends heavily on the circumstances and needs to be tailored to the institution.

Migration is also possible in two phases. First, the existing directory service structures are adopted one-to-one. In the actual sense, only an update of the software or of the operating system is performed on the respective directory service servers. This has the disadvantage that inadmissibility is often preserved and a configuration of the directory service from a security point of view is still required.

In a second step, the directory service is restructured. This procedure usually corresponds to a complete rebuilding. It offers the advantage that old and more complicated structures can be replaced by new ones. In addition, changes in the organization in the directory service can be mapped accordingly. It should be noted, however, that the planning and implementation of the new structure is usually associated with great effort.



## Examples 
* If the directory service is to be run in a heterogeneous structure with different software versions or operating systems during the migration, it should be determined in this case whether this mixed operation should only be active for a defined transition period or permanently. In a mixed operation, it must be ensured that the individual components of the directory service are compatible with one another in order to ensure availability. Furthermore, it is important that the security mechanisms for authenticating the users of the directory service or for ensuring the confidentiality and integrity of the data in the directory or at their request are sufficient and meet the defined requirements for a directory service.
* In the course of the migration, conversions should also be carried out on the part of the clients Depending on the extent of the migration of the directory service, for example, the authentication protocol of the clients can be changed in relation to the directory service. In order to be able to use new security features of the directory service, a migration of the clients may even be necessary.




