#M 2.386 Careful planning of necessary WLAN migration steps
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Due to the fast pace of WLAN technology, migration of an existing installation to new protocols, techniques or products will rarely be avoided in practice. There is generally a distinction between two types of migration:

* Migration of the transmission technology (eg from IEEE 802.11g to IEEE 802.11h)
* Migration of WLAN security mechanisms (eg from WEP to WPA-PSK or IEEE 802.11i with IEEE 802.1X)


In the first case, the entire planning process for a WLAN has to be run, from risk assessment to the selection of appropriate security measures.

In the second case, if necessary, different security systems must be operated in parallel at the same time and an extended configuration of the access points, the distribution system and the transfer point to the WLAN be carried out. If necessary, the WLAN components or WLAN areas that have not yet been migrated must be reduced to a limited use by appropriate technical and organizational specifications. For example, the access of non-migrated components to sensitive data can be banned, or the non-migrated WLAN area can be secured by an additional DMZ from the rest of the WLAN and LAN.

During a possibly necessary mixed operation of two security mechanisms, eg. from WPA-PSK or WPA2-PSK and WEP, the following points should be noted:

* Mixed operation should be as short as possible.
* If WEP and pre-shared keys are used at the same time, it is important to ensure that the key information is changed more frequently (at least daily) and that only complex passwords are used (see M 2.388 Appropriate wireless Schlsselmanagement).
* Access points must allow both mechanisms to operate simultaneously during the migration phase. Access points that support a maximum of WEP are to be replaced as soon as possible and removed from the WLAN.
* WLAN clients that only support WEP (for example, a printer or a PDA) should only be turned on when they are needed. These should be replaced as soon as possible by clients supporting WPA2.
* The configuration of the WLAN components such as a WLAN printer should, if possible, not be done via the air interface but via the console port of the component.


In any case, the individual migration steps have to be planned carefully. The migration should also be used to consolidate a grown WLAN infrastructure and retrain the WLAN administrators and WLAN users. If the logon process for the WLAN users changes as a result of the introduction of new WLAN authentication mechanisms, the users must also be retrained. Furthermore, the WLAN user policy should be adapted to the new processes.



