#M 2.245 Determination of the legal factors influencing electronic archiving
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: archive administrator, IT security officer

There are various legal requirements for the retention of certain information, the non-compliance of which may have civil or criminal consequences. Therefore, the responsible persons should inform themselves which legal requirements apply in their case. This results in requirements for the design of the archiving concept, which must be taken into account when planning electronic archiving. This applies inter alia

* minimum storage for tax, budgetary or other reasons,
* Maximum storage duration for data protection reasons,
* Access rights for external users, such as. Tax Authorities, as well
* Quality of digital signatures.


The applicable legal bases are to be determined on a case-by-case basis.

Here are some sources that are typically considered in Germany:

* Civil Code (BGB) Here, in particular, requirements are made for the legal validity of documents in civil law. The BGB also defines periods of limitation, z. B. for compensation for tort.
* Code of Civil Procedure (ZPO) Analogous to the BGB, the ZPO regulates which documents must be recognized as a deed, for example by means of a stand-alone signature or a qualified digital signature.
* Commercial Code (HGB) Here are requirements for the orderliness and auditability of the business. This also includes certain retention periods for business documents.
* Principles of orderly data processing (GoDV) The GoDV itself are not a statutory provision, but are derived from the principles of orderly bookkeeping defined in the HGB. They are to be understood as de facto standard for the DV revision in enterprises.
* Principles for Data Access and the Examination of Digital Documents (GDPdU) The Federal Ministry of Finance has specified the revision requirements of the GoDV as part of the GDPdU. This concerns mainly all tax-relevant digitally available documents. Hereby u. a. required that all information necessary for the evaluation of the data, such as file structure, data fields, internal and external links, be available in machine-evaluable form.
* Personal Data Protection Laws and Regulations If personal data is to be archived, the applicable laws and regulations must be adhered to. These include above all the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) and the corresponding laws of the countries.


Furthermore, there are laws and regulations that have to be observed especially for authorities and in the administration, for example:

* Bundesarchivgesetz and the corresponding Landesarchivgesetze,
* Registry Policy for the Editing and Administration of Records in Federal Ministries (RegR),
* Recommendations of the Federal Archives for the Separation of Electronic Files in the Concept for the Screening of Electronic Files of the Federal Government Coordinating and Counseling Office for Information in the Federal Administration (KBSt Publication Series, Volume 40).


Organizationally, there are numerous other legal and organizational regulations (eg regulations for social security funds, hospitals, pharmaceutical industry, military or credit institutions) that have to be determined on a case-by-case basis. Essential regulatory criteria are usually the retention period and the confidentiality and integrity requirements, with the latter taking into account not only the strength but also the duration of the protection requirement.

In addition, there is a legal obligation for the public administration to also offer documents in digital form to the responsible archives (duty of disclosure).



