#M 2.316 Set a security policy for a common server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

The security requirements for each server result from the organization-wide security policy. Based on the general policy, the requirements for the given context must be specified and summarized in a security policy for the server or a group of servers. In this context, it is necessary to examine whether, in addition to the organization-wide security guideline, further overriding requirements such as IT guidelines, password guidelines or Internet usage guidelines must be taken into account.

The security policy must be known to all persons and groups involved in the procurement and operation of the servers and be the basis for their work. As with all directives, their content and implementation must be regularly reviewed by a higher-level audit.

The security policy should specify the level of security generally to be achieved and make basic determinations about the operation of the server. To improve the clarity, it may be useful to develop separate security guidelines for different areas of application.

First of all, the general configuration and administration strategy (Liberal or Restrictive) should be defined, as the further decisions depend essentially on this definition.

For servers that only store and process data with normal protection requirements, a relatively liberal strategy can be chosen, which in many cases simplifies configuration and administration. In general, however, it is also advisable in these cases to interpret the strategy only as liberally as necessary.

A restrictive strategy is generally recommended for a server that stores or processes sensitive data. For servers with special protection requirements with regard to one of the three basic values, it is essential to implement a restrictive configuration and administration strategy.

Here are a few points that should be considered:

* Rules for physical access control: A server should generally be installed or installed in a lockable computer room or server cabinet. It is to be regulated who receives access to the room or access to the server itself.
* Regulations for the work of administrators and auditors: According to which scheme are administration rights granted? Which administrator is allowed to exercise which rights and how does he obtain these rights? Which access methods can administrators and auditors access to the systems (for example, only locally at the console, via a separate administration network or via encrypted connections)? ? Which processes must be documented? In what form is the documentation created and maintained? Does a four-eye principle apply to certain changes?


* Installation and basic configuration guidelinesWhich installation media are used for installation Should a central authentication service be used or is user administration and authentication only local? User and role management regulations, authorization structures (procedure and methods of authentication and authorization, authorization for installation , Update, configuration changes etc.). As far as possible, a role concept for the administration should be developed. Specifications for the software packages to be installed. If it was decided in the planning for the server that parts of the file system should be encrypted, then it is recommended How to do this: What parts of the file system should be encrypted, what mechanism should be used to implement the encrypted file system, what crypto algorithms and key sequences should be used, what data should be used stored in the encrypted file systems How are the encrypted file systems included in the backup?


* It is recommended that you create your own concept for the use of encrypted file systems and document the details of the configuration with particular care, since in the case of problems (loss of key or passphrase to the key, incorrect Configuration or similar) otherwise the data on the encrypted file systems may be completely lost.
* Regulations for the creation and maintenance of documentation


* Requirements for safe operationWhich user group is allowed to log on to the system locally? Which users are granted access via the network? Which protocols can be used? What resources can users access?
* Password Usage Guidelines (password rules, rules and situations for password changes, password deposit, if applicable) Who can shut down the system?


* Network communication and services Should a local packet filter be set up Which network services are offered by the server Which authentication methods should be selected for the services offered Which external network services should be accessible from the computer? File system to be involved?




* Distributed file systems in which the user data is transmitted unencrypted should only be used in the internal network. If a distributed file system is to be used over an insecure network, it must be secured by additional measures (cryptographically protected VPN, tunneling).


* LoggingWhat events are logged? Where are the log files stored? Are they stored locally or should a central server be used, at which the individual systems in the network send their logging information? How and at which intervals are the logs evaluated? Who has access to the log files? Is it ensured that personal information not reach unauthorized persons How long should the log files be stored?


Based on the above points, a checklist can be created that can be helpful in audits or revisions.

The responsibility for the safety guideline lies with the safety management,   changes and deviations from it may take place only in agreement with the safety management.

When creating a security policy, it is advisable to proceed in such a way that first of all a maximum of requirements and specifications for the security of the systems is established. These can then be adapted to the actual circumstances. Ideally, this is achieved so that all necessary aspects are taken into account. For each deficient or deficient specification in the second step, the reason for non-consideration should be documented.



