#M 2.327 Secure remote access to clients starting with Windows XP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

With Windows XP, two new mechanisms for remote control of a computer have been introduced: the remote desktop and the remote support. The remote desktop is based on Terminal Services (RDP) technology and allows logging in to the system over a network. The remote support extends the remote desktop with the ability to access the screen contents of a remote computer within an existing session and, if necessary, to take control of the computer. Windows Vista, Windows 7, and Windows 8 also support these remote control mechanisms.

The remote desktop is primarily used for maintenance on Windows machines or for accessing virtual machines over a network. A variety of third-party tools can also be used for this purpose. The use of remote assistance is conceivable for companies and authorities, especially in scenarios where employees of an internal or external support center should provide the user with the necessary assistance. With activated remote access via mmc.exe tools, telnet and command-line tools is always a timeout to set. A timeout ensures an automatic logoff of the user from the remote access at inactivity after a set period of time.

When using the remote desktop, it should be noted that only one user at a time can be logged on to the target computer. The remote desktop is not to be understood as a replacement for terminal services.

For Windows versions where the remote desktop is enabled by default, disable this setting. Remote desktop and remote support can be enabled or disabled by using the following GPOs: Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows components | Terminal Services and User Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows components | Terminal Services and Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | System | Remote Assistance or locally through the Control Panel (in Windows XP, under System | Remote, and in Windows Vista under System | Advanced System Settings | Remote).

For Windows 7 and 8, enable Remote Assistance using the following GPOs: Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | System | Remoteuntersttzung

The configuration for the remote desktop as of Windows 7 is to be activated by means of the following GPO: Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows components | Remote Desktop Services.

As of Windows 7, the path for the local setting is System and Security | System | Remote settings.

When using these two technologies, the following must be observed:

* It is strong encryption (128-bit, setting highest level) to use. This must be set in the Client Connection Encryption Level for Windows XP under Computer Configuration | Windows Settings | Administrative Templates | Terminal Services | Encryption and Security, and for Windows Vista under Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows Components | Terminal Services | Terminal Server | Security). In Windows 7 and Windows 8, the setting is under Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows components | Remote Desktop Services | Remote Desktop Session Host | Safety. Set the Encryption level of the client connection and select the highest level.
* No automatic password login should be used. For Windows XP, this must always be prompted for the password by activating the policy Clients on connection under Computer Configuration | Windows Settings | Administrative Templates | Terminal Services | Encryption and security are turned off. This also applies to XP mode in Windows 7. In Windows Vista, the setting under Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows components | Terminal Services | Terminal server | To activate security. In Windows 7 and Windows 8, the On Connection setting must always prompt for password input under Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows components | Remote Desktop Services | Remote Desktop Session Host | Security activated.
* The redirects of the clipboard, printers, file trays, and smart card ports, for Windows XP, under Computer Configuration | Windows Settings | Administrative Templates | Terminal Services | Client / server data redirection should be turned on and off as far as possible. become. Under Windows Vista, the corresponding paths are Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows components | Terminal Services | Terminal server | Printer redirection or hardware redirection or temporary folders. In Windows 7 and Windows 8, the options under Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows components | Remote Desktop Services | Remote Desktop Session Host | Find device and resource redirection or temporary folders.
* Additional protection for using Remote Desktop is provided by the network authentication feature (user authentication with network-level authentication is required for remote connections), available since Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008. With this feature, Remote Desktop clients authenticate the user who wants to connect first through the network before the actual Remote Desktop connection is established. Unauthorized persons who do not have a domain account can therefore not start a remote desktop connection. When using this feature, you must ensure that the company uses Remote Desktop clients that support network authentication. Under Windows Server 2012 and Windows 8, network-level authentication is enforced by default.


The group of authorized users for remote desktop access is specified either by assigning appropriate user rights in the policies (Allow login through Terminal Services, Deny login through Terminal Services) or through the Control Panel. By default, remote access is available to the Administrators group as well as to the Remote Desktop Users group, which is empty after installation.

To set up a Remote Assistance session, there are the following options:

* Invite a trusted person for assistance
* Offer help to a user who invited you


The currently logged-in user must explicitly agree to the establishment of a session. The helper's username is the weak link to the connection because of lack of authentication. Therefore, the remote support mechanism requires careful deployment.

There are two ways to start a remote session. The first option is to dial by invitation file. If a remote session is to be established via this option, the communication partner must always authenticate itself with a corresponding password at each new session. This password must be requested by the other communication partner via a separate channel.

The second option is the use of EasyConnect. Here, the communication partner must authenticate once by password. Since subsequent authentication of the same communication partner is not necessary, EasyConnect should generally not be used in the company. The option of dial-in via invitation file is to be preferred.

By defining appropriate policies, you must ensure the following when using Remote Assistance:

* A session should only be established after an explicit invitation. If the provision of remote support is to be possible, the connection establishment may only be permitted to certain user groups (eg support staff). The definition takes the form of: <domain name> / <user name> <domain name> / <group name> <user name> @ <domain>. <TopLevelDomain>. A selection from existing user groups or groups is not possible.
* The maximum duration of the invitation must be set to an acceptable level for the company or institution. The maximum period of validity should not exceed five minutes.
* If an invitation to remote support is saved to a file, a password should be assigned to reduce the risk of unauthorized use of the invitation.
* The type of control (helpers may only view the computer or helpers remotely control the computer) should be restricted as far as possible (helpers may only view the computer).


When using Remote Desktop and / or Remote Support, consider the implications for configuring and managing firewalls. In general, it is recommended that you do not allow remote desktop or remote support connections from outside your own network.

In summary, the use of remote control mechanisms has to be weighed very carefully. In particular, due to the existing differences in user authentication, the advantages and disadvantages of each mechanism should be considered. If no use of remote desktop or remote support is made in a company or in a public agency, these must be deactivated.



## Examples 
* Is automatic password logon disabled on Windows client versions as of Windows XP?
* Has the authorized users group been designated for remote desktop access by assigning appropriate user rights or policies?
* Are the group policies secure and configured as needed?
* Can remote assistance only be available after an explicit invitation via EasyConnect or an invitation file?
* Has the maximum duration of the invitation been set to an acceptable level?
* Is a password assigned to the file when saving an invitation to a file?
* Are the effects on the configuration of the firewall taken into account when planning remote assistance?
* Have the remote control mechanisms been completely deactivated if their use is not planned?




