#M 2.411 Separation of the administration of services and data of an Active Directory
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The administrative activities for Windows server operating systems can basically be subdivided into the two roles of service management and data management with different areas of responsibility.

Under the service management, the support of the Active Directory service itself is understood. Service administrators manage the domain controllers, for example. Installing updates at the operating system level, and the configuration of the Active Directory, such as directory-wide settings, such as trusts or replication architecture.

The data in the Active Directory or the Active Directory forest member computers should be managed by the data administrators. The data administrators should not make any changes to the Active Directory service itself, eg. Changes to directory service replication may be required. Using access control lists (ACLs), the authorizations should be limited as far as possible to individual subareas.

Because service administrators need extensive permissions for service management, they should also be able to perform administrative data management activities. Conversely, the data administrators should not be able to change the configuration of the Active Directory.

In order to prevent misuse of the administrative accounts, the user accounts of the above roles must be appropriately secured. The required configurations in the Active Directory itself are listed in the M .4.318 Implementing secure management methods for Active Directory.



