#M 2.477 Planning a virtual infrastructure
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Due to the high degree of complexity, detailed planning is essential when setting up a virtual infrastructure. Therefore, a detailed analysis of the necessary basic conditions should be carried out already during a conceptual analysis and in advance of a project.



## Examples 
* Server virtualization, in which a complete server with all its hardware components is displayed virtually, is particularly well-suited for the operation of very different virtual IT systems with highly varying tasks. In systems based on server virtualization, it is possible to operate different operating systems (Windows, Linux, Solaris) in the virtual IT systems simultaneously on a virtualization server, since each virtual system can use its own operating system kernel. With the help of server virtualization a very strong encapsulation of the virtual IT systems can be achieved. This means, for example, that the virtual IT system does not use operating system components or software libraries of the virtualization server or of other virtual IT systems. Further, in server virtualization, the virtual systems are more isolated from each other than in the OS virtualization, i. h.eine mutual functional influence is largely excluded.
* Operating system virtualization makes it easy to run large volumes of similar servers on a virtualization server. Operating system virtualization can therefore achieve high levels of consolidation (the ratio of virtualized IT systems to virtualization servers). However, it is usually not possible with operating system virtualization to operate different operating systems on a server as virtual systems, since the virtual IT systems mostly use the operating system kernel and the software libraries of the virtualization server. Within limits this is possible for some products within an operating system family. For example, Parallels Virtuozzo enables the use of different editions of the Microsoft Windows Server 2003 operating system. Virtual IT systems are not as isolated as server virtualization. For example, software libraries are shared and the virtual IT systems use the same operating system kernel. The encapsulation of the virtual IT systems is usually not present or only very weak, as they use software and hardware components of the virtualization server.




