#M 2.343 Securing an SAP system in the portal scenario
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Development, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, developer

SAP systems are increasingly being used in portal scenarios. In the following, it is assumed that this is an internal agency or company portal via which an SAP system is accessed. This measure does not deal with the security of the agency or company portal, but with the security of an SAP system in the vicinity of the portal. For SAP systems in Internet scenarios, appropriate measures can be found in M 2.344 Secure operation of SAP systems on the Internet. Access in portal scenarios is usually done via HTTP, and users use a browser for it.



In portal scenarios, it is often assumed that the portal used accesses the downstream SAP system. Direct user access to the SAP system would then not be necessary. As a rule, however, only a redirection to the SAP system takes place in the portal so that the user requests are made directly to the SAP system. This is often even transparent to the user as the data displayed in the browser is displayed in a frame within the accessed portal page. In this respect, the measure M 2.344 Safe operation of SAP systems is also relevant to the Internet in portal scenarios.

In general, the following basic aspects are important for SAP systems in portal scenarios:

* Architecture of the network and system structure (see also M 2.341 Planning of the SAP application)
* Communication protection (see also M 5.125 Securing Communication to and from SAP Systems)
* Security of applications in the internet use
* Detecting attacks (intrusion detection systems)
* Protection against viruses when uploading or downloading files (see also M 4.271 Virus Protection for SAP Systems)


The following aspects, which derive directly from the portal scenario, are to be considered especially:



## Examples 
* Have SAP systems that are addressed by browser redirects and are accessible to users taken into account in risk assessment?
* Is access to the affected SAP systems in the portal scenario restricted by a firewall to HTTP or HTTPS ports?
* Is dialog access to the SAP system prevented if it is not required?
* Is it ensured that accounts with the same name in Portal and SAP System are assigned to the same persons?
* Are the authorizations in the SAP system kept to a minimum, so that only the functions that are possible by the portal application can be called?
* Are the deployed applications equipped with secure session management that works well in portal scenarios?




