#M 2.434 Procurement of appropriate equipment for the deletion or destruction of data
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, IT Leader, Organization Leader

Responsible for implementation: Procurement, IT Security Officer, IT Director

Typically, most institutions use different tools to erase or destroy data stored on different types of media. Some of them at the workplaces of employees, others centralized, for example in IT support. Before procuring a tool, the requirements and basic conditions should be determined in order to find a suitable tool for the respective application. When selecting equipment for the deletion or destruction of data, account must be taken of the requirements specified in M .2.167 Selection of appropriate data erasure or destruction procedures.

The requirements for the respective tools for the deletion or destruction of data should be documented in order to be able to regularly check on the basis of the documentation whether the requirements are met by the selected tools.

The requirements for shredders are described in M 2.435 Selection of suitable document shredders. The requirements for tools for the deletion or destruction of electronic data carriers are strongly determined by their design and purpose. The focus is on the fulfillment of the security requirements of the institution. Among other things:

* Can the data be reliably erased according to their protection needs?
* Has an independent institution such as the BSI certified the product in accordance with recognized safety criteria such as the Common Criteria (CC) or approved for use in the security sector?
* Is the product easy to install, configure and use?
* Can the product be configured to meet the specified security goals?
* Can important configuration parameters be protected against changes by unauthorized users?
* Does the supplied product documentation contain an exact description of all technical and administrative details?
* Is the performance of the product appropriate to the size of the user group?
* Can employees use the tools effectively, safely and without errors, without major training?
* What are the initial costs of the products? What are the anticipated running costs (maintenance, operation, support)?


If data is deleted unintentionally, this can disrupt entire business processes. Therefore, it should be clarified whether the interfaces and access for the use of these tools can be adequately secured.

How these requirements can be concretized is illustrated by the example of a requirement profile for the safe deletion of hard disks.



## Examples 
* Number of overwrites
* berschreibmuster
* Change of overwriting patterns per run
* Consideration of hard disk internal coding
* Verifikationsdurchlufe




