#M 2.64 Control of log files
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Auditor, responsible for the individual applications

The logging of security-relevant events is only effective as a safety measure if the logged data is evaluated by an auditor at regular intervals. If it is not possible to implement the role of an independent auditor for log files either personally or technically, their evaluation can also be performed by the administrator. In this case, it should be noted that it is difficult to control the activities of the administrator. The result of the evaluation should therefore be presented to the IT security officer, the IT officer or another specially designated employee.

The regular check also serves the purpose of preventing excessive growth of the log files by the subsequent deletion of the log data. Depending on the type of log data, it may be useful to archive them on external data carriers.

Since log files contain personal data in most cases, it must be ensured that this data is only used for the purpose of data protection control, data backup or to ensure proper operation (see   14 Abs. 4BDSG and M 2.110 Privacy Aspects during logging). The scope of the logging and the criteria for its evaluation should be documented and agreed within the organization.

On the one hand, minimum legal retention periods, but on the other hand, maximum retention periods for log data can result from various legal regulations. Thus, data protection regulations may require deletion (see also M 2.110 Data protection aspects during logging).

For certain protocol data, however, legal minimum retention periods may apply, eg. B.when they provide information on business processes. These deadlines must be respected in any case. Before deleting log data, it is therefore necessary to carefully check whether the relevant legal provisions are to be observed and, if so, what retention periods result from this. Here, the legal department should be involved.

The following evaluation criteria serve as examples which indicate indications of possible safety gaps, manipulation attempts and irregularities:

* Are the times of logging in and out of working hours (reference to manipulation attempts)?
* Are there any erroneous attempts to log in (an indication of an attempt to guess passwords)?
* Are there any inadmissible attempts to access (reference to attempts to manipulate)?
* Are there noticeably large time intervals in which no log data was recorded (reference to possibly deleted log records)?
* Is the amount of logged data too large (an extensive log file makes it difficult to find any irregularities)?
* Are there noticeably large time intervals in which apparently no user change has taken place (indication that the consistent logout is not completed after the end of work)?
* Are there noticeably long connection times in public networks (see G4.25 Non-isolated connections)?
* Has an extremely high network load or interruption in network operation been detected in individual network segments or in the entire network (reference to attempts to prevent the services of the network from being impaired or to an inappropriate conception or configuration of the network)?


When analyzing the log files, special attention should be paid to all accesses made under administrator IDs.

If extensive log files have to be evaluated regularly, it makes sense to use a tool for evaluation. This tool should allow selectable evaluation criteria and highlight particularly critical entries (eg multiple failed logon attempts).

The above also applies analogously to the collection of audit data, as it is in principle only the logging of safety-critical events.



