#M 2.3 Disk Management
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT, Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: archive administrator, specialist responsible

The task of data carrier management as part of resource management is to ensure access to data carriers to the required extent and within a reasonable period of time. This requires the proper management of the data media, which requires uniform labeling and inventory management. Furthermore, in the context of data carrier management, the proper handling and storage of the data carriers, their proper use and transport, and finally also the deletion or destruction of the data carriers must be ensured. In the case of analogue data carriers, most institutions have a well-practiced and proven procedure for their administrations, namely the classic file management. For this reason, the digital data carriers are given priority in this measure, but the individual recommendations apply mutatis mutandis to all types of data carriers.

Inventories allow fast and targeted access to data media. For example, inventories provide information about repository, retention period, authorized recipient.

The external identification of data carriers enables their rapid identification. The marking should, however, not allow unauthorized persons to draw any conclusions about the content (eg the marking of a magnetic tape with the word "telephone charges") in order to make it more difficult to misuse. A defined structure of identification features (eg date, filing structure, serial number) facilitates the assignment to inventories.

For the proper handling of data carriers, the manufacturer's instructions, which can usually be found on the packaging, are to be used. With regard to the storage of data carriers, on the one hand measures for storage (magnetic field / dust-protected, climate-friendly) and on the other hand measures to prevent unauthorized access (suitable containers, cabinets, rooms) are to be made ,

The dispatch or transport of data carriers must be carried out in such a way that damage to the data media can be ruled out as far as possible (eg magnetic tape mailing, air-cushioned envelopes). The packaging of the data carrier must be aligned with its need for protection (eg by means of lockable transport containers). Shipment or transport methods (eg courier transport) must be defined in the same way as the proof procedure for the dispatch (eg delivery slip, shipping documents) and receipt at the recipient (eg receipt of goods) actuation). The data carrier may contain no residual data beyond the data to be sent. This can be achieved by physical deletion. If no tools are available, the disk should be at least formatted. It should be ensured that it is not possible to reverse the command with the underlying operating system.

Furthermore, it should be noted that a backup copy is created before the delivery of important data carriers. Further executions for dispatching and transporting data carriers include the module B 5.2 Data medium exchange.

For the internal transfer of data carriers, provisions can be made such as acknowledgment procedures, pick-up / take-along authorizations and the keeping of inventories of the whereabouts of the data carriers.

In the event that data carriers obtained from third parties are used, provisions must be made for their treatment before use. If, for example, digital data is transmitted, a computer virus check of the data carrier or data sets should generally be carried out. This also applies accordingly before the first use of new digital data carriers. It is advisable to check these for computer viruses not only when receiving but also before sending digital data carriers.

A regulated procedure for the deletion or destruction of data carriers prevents the misuse of the stored data. Before the data media are reused, the stored data must be deleted (see also B 1.15 Deleting and destroying data).



