#M 2.232 Planning the Windows CA structure as of Windows 2000
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Starting with Windows 2000, Windows ships with its own PKI components, which allow you to set up a company-wide certificate hierarchy. Certificates serve to confirm identities of persons and systems in cryptographic processes such as encryption, (certificate-based) authentication, or the electronic signature of data and applications. The core of a PKI (Public Key Infrastructure) is the so-called Certificate Authority (CA), which can issue certificates. For the operation of Windows, the operation of a CA is generally not necessary, but always mandatory if certain features or functions are to be used. This includes the registration with chip cards or other tokens as well as secure communication between Windows system components via SSL. Windows offers two occurrences of a CA:

* Stand-alone CA (stand-alone certification authority) and
* Enterprise CA (Organization-wide certification authority).


The main difference between the two CA versions is that the Enterprise CA is integrated with the Active Directory, which benefits Active Directory as a directory service. For example, CAs are published in Active Directory, and certificates can be issued and distributed automatically to a large extent. For the stand-alone CA, the certificate request is always checked by the administrator of the CA. Certificate generation must be initiated manually by the administrator. The stand-alone CA can also be installed and operated on a non-networked computer, whereas the Enterprise CA can usefully run only on a networked computer. As of Windows Server 2003 Enterprise Edition, the certificate templates can be customized in the Enterprise CA.

Both CA versions are suitable for setting up certificate hierarchies and can therefore also function as a subordinate CA. For many infrastructural purposes of a LAN, the Enterprise CA is better suited and should normally be preferred. In multi-level hierarchies, it is advisable to operate the top hierarchy (root CA) offline because its key as a trust anchor of the entire hierarchy is particularly worthwhile, and the CA only rarely to issue the certificates for the sub-CAs is needed.

In particular, when planning an authority or company-wide PKI, it should be ensured that all application scenarios and the applications affected by them are known. In order to be able to assess the technical feasibility, it is advisable to check in advance all components which are to be used for their interoperability.

A list of structural planning aspects can be found on the BSI websites under the tools for IT-Grundschutz (see Aids for planning the Windows 2000/2003 CA structure). In general, all relevant organizational, technical and also safety-related framework conditions for the operation of a CA must be documented in a corresponding concept.



## Examples 
* Planning a PKI takes time. As a rule, internal organizational responsibilities in particular have to be regulated and codified.
* The CA hierarchy should be based on the planned and future possible deployment scenarios. Different purposes should be mapped by own CAs, which can be merged under a common offline-powered root CA.
* The purpose of certificates plays an important role in the planning of the CA structure. For example, setting up a general, organization-wide certificate infrastructure is usually more difficult than setting up an application-specific PKI. An application-related PKI can be used, for example, if only the affected employees need to be reliably identified in the context of a network-based application. An example of this is the electronic submission and processing of holiday applications, whereby the applications must be subsequently digitally signed off, ie signed, by different persons.
* For the operation of the CAs and the use of the certificates issued, a CA guideline must be defined and documented, typically in the form of so-called Certification Practice Statements (CPS) and Certificate Policies (CP). The Internet standard RFC3647 is internationally recognized for their structure.
* Appropriate processes must be introduced for the blocking of certificates. The aspects availability and availability of the blocking point, persons entitled to block and their reliable identification and documentation of the blocking must be taken into account.
* If keys are compromised or compromised, they will need a new certificate to continue their work. For this purpose, in particular when using chip cards or tokens as key carriers, suitable methods are to be defined for how the ability to work can be restored in a sufficiently short time (for example by means of secure provision and output of pre-personalized chip cards to the individual users locations).




