#M 2.116 Regulated use of communication options for teleworking
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Teleworker

Teleworking typically requires various communication options such as telephone, fax and Internet connections as well as mail exchange and file and data carrier transport. Therefore, a teleworking computer must have various electronic communication options.

It must be regulated how the existing communication options can be used. The exchange of mail as well as file and data carrier transport between institution and teleworkplace must also be considered. In principle, the private use of the communication options should be clearly regulated. The regulations on the use of communication options for teleworking must be specified in writing, eg. in the Telework Safety Directive (see M 2.113 Teleworking Regulations). These regulations are to be handed over to the teleworkers.

At least the following points should be answered:

* Data flow controlThe exchange of information between the teleworkstation and the institution must be regulated in such a way as to ensure the security of the information.What services may be used for the exchange of information and for data transmission? Which information may be disclosed to whom Which services may not be used explicitly Which correspondence may be processed by e-mail? Is there a signature regulation for communication, which authentication methods are used for correspondence and data exchange, are digital signatures used?
* Access Permits If telework requires access to the IT of the institution (for example, to a server), it must first be determined which objects, such as data or IT, a teleworker actually needs for the fulfillment of his tasks. For the granting of access and access rights see M 2.7 Assignment of access authorizations and M 2.8 assignment of access rights. Have the necessary rights such as read and write access to these objects been assigned? He should not be able to access objects that a teleworker does not need for his task perception.
* Security measures in the exchange of information The exchange of information in teleworking must be adequately secured. Confidential information must be securely transported.For which data carrier should which shipping method be used (eg courier service)? Which type of transport protection is appropriate (eg covers with security labels)? For which data should which encryption methods be used? Data should always be encrypted during data transmission and on data carriers, so that transport losses can endanger their availability and not their confidentiality.When transferring data for the sole purpose of data transfer the data transfer has been created or compiled, backup copies of this compilation held? In the event of loss or damage to the data carrier, shipping can be carried out again with minimal effort. For which data is deletion necessary after successful transmission? This may, for example, apply to personal data.Any data should remain on the teleworking computer despite the successful transmission of a copy of the data Before sending and receiving data, a computer virus check of the data should be carried out.F What data transfers should be logged? If automatic logging of data transmissions should not be possible, it must be determined whether and to what extent handwritten logging should be provided for.
* Internet usage It is to be regulated whether Internet services can be used via the telework computer. It is also to be decided whether a private use is permitted. Is the use of Internet services generally prohibited? Which internet services may be used? Should data be downloaded from the internet? Data from third-party servers may be in danger of malicious software. Which framework conditions and technical security measures must be observed when using the internet? Which security mechanisms should be activated in the browser, for example? Can teleworkers participate in the exchange of information via Internet platforms, newsgroups, blogs or similar? Is a pseudonym required for this?
* Obtaining information From the teleworking station, various information-gathering services can be used, eg. B. Database queries, search engines, documentation systems or research service providers. Since their use is partly subject to a charge, the budget which the institution makes available for this purpose must be taken into account. Which information-gathering services can be used from the teleworkstation? As far as possible, queries should be made using an encrypted connection, so that the type of queries can not be used to draw conclusions about internals, such as corporate strategies. Is the bandwidth of the communication connection at the teleworking computer sufficient for online searches and database queries?




