#M 2.329 Introduction of Windows XP SP2
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Since August 2004, the Windows XP Service Pack 2 from Microsoft is available. On April 12, 2005, the period in which the installation of SP2 with a special tool from Microsoft can be prevented despite activated Internet-based Windows Update service. Only organizations that have their own update server can continue to prevent the installation of SP2.

In addition to bug fixes and improvements to existing mechanisms, Service Pack 2 also includes some security-related changes or enhancements. To name here are, for example:

* In total more than 600 new security policies (Windows Firewall, Security Center, Internet Explorer, etc.)
* Improvements in the Windows Firewall (formerly Internet Connection Firewall, ICF), especially the possibility for central administration.
* Improvements in Internet Explorer: add-on management, pop-up blocking, zone elevation blocking, consistent MIME processing, more restrictive handling of ActiveX controls.
* Integration of anti-virus software from third-party manufacturers in the so-called security center, which is intended for central management and monitoring of Windows security settings.
* Memory protection against buffer overflows: The system kernel and the libraries were translated with specific compiler flags, which should protect against buffer overflows. This No Execute Flag (NX) is used by some current processors.
* Marking downloaded files and attachments on Attachment Execution Service (NTFS) drives.
* The use of raw sockets and the direct manipulation of IP packets have been significantly curtailed, denial-of-service precautions are integrated into the TCP / IP stack.
* USB write protection has been implemented so that with a suitable configuration read-only access to USB storage devices such as USB sticks and USB disks is possible (this prevents unauthorized data export to USB media).


The configuration of new settings, and in particular Group Policy settings, must be set in advance of the SP2 installation. Changes in Group Policy can have far-reaching business and administrative implications with Windows XP clients and must be carefully performed by administrators.



## Examples 
* Problems managing GPOs with old tools because new administrative templates contain long strings
* MMC Snap-in Group Policy Result Set no longer works for remote requests due to the default post-installation firewall
* Problems with DCOM applications because a new DCOM authentication model was introduced (for example, delegation of GPO tasks to non-administrative users)
* Application issues due to the default firewall
* Application issues due to changes to the TCP / IP stack (restriction on the use of raw sockets)
* Script and ActiveX error messages, image display issues when opening saved Web pages in applications (including Microsoft Office products)
* Additional software is automatically installed (Windows Movie Maker). This may have to be removed again.




