#M 2.174 Secure operation of a web server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Web servers are attractive targets for attackers, so they must be configured very carefully so they can operate safely. The operating system and the software must be configured to protect the computer against attacks as much as possible. As long as the computer is not configured accordingly, it must not be connected to the network.

When configuring the web server application, regardless of the web server application you are using, you should consider some basic issues. How these are configured in detail depends on the web server application.

In most cases, there are options that can be used to specify whether an HTTP request for a directory (that is, without specifying a specific file name) should list the contents of the directory in question or return specific files (such as index.html) instead should be. This should be configured as follows:

* If an index file exists, it will be returned.
* If not, an error message will be returned.


If it can be determined that programs or CGI scripts can only be executed in certain directories, then this option should definitely be set very narrowly. Under no circumstances should the execution of programs be released for the entire WWW area. It is recommended, if possible for programs and scripts to create a separate directory and to allow the execution only in this directory.

It is often possible to specify whether files or directories that have been displayed in the WWW file tree by means of a symbolic link (Unix) or a link (Windows) should be displayed. This should be avoided as far as possible, as this makes it easy to access files that should not actually be published.

It is advisable to regularly execute a checklist like the following to ensure safe operation.



## Examples 
* Are the operating system and the software of the web server configured so that the computer is as protected as possible against attacks?
* Are there any directories where retrievable files are stored on a separate partition of a hard disk?
* For HTTP request for a directory: Is an error message issued if no index file exists and the index file otherwise?
* If it is possible to specify the executions of programs or CGI scripts: Can the programs or CGI scripts only be executed in the directories intended for them?
* Is it not possible to insert links (Unix) or shortcuts (Windows) in the WWW file tree?




