#M 2.4 Regulations for maintenance and repair work
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user, IT manager

Maintenance work must be carried out on a regular basis to protect IT from disruptions. The timely initiation of maintenance work and the verification of its implementation should be carried out by a central body (eg procuring entity). The maintenance work should be carried out by trusted persons or companies, if they can not be carried out by own personnel. The instructions of the manufacturer must be strictly observed. For regular maintenance work by external persons, the conclusion of a maintenance contract can be advantageous.

For every IT system, it should be documented when it was maintained and which errors were rectified (eg device pass or device or configuration management system). It is also advisable to set up an information system for maintenance and repair work. With such a system, upcoming work can be planned and documented work can be documented and the successful course can be controlled.

It should also document who is responsible for the maintenance or repair of equipment.



## Examples 
* Maintenance and repair work must be announced in good time to the affected employees.
* Maintenance technicians must identify themselves on request.
* Access to data by the service technician should be avoided as far as possible. If necessary, storage media must first be removed or deleted (after a complete data backup), especially if the work must be carried out externally. If the removal is not possible (eg due to a defect), the work must also be monitored externally or special contractual agreements must be made and trusted companies must be selected.




