#M 2.551 Implementation of a suitable and legally compliant procurement procedure
Responsible for initiation: Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible

For a procurement procedure to procure a standard or individual software, there may be a number of specifications that must be observed. While these are mostly corporate rules or corporate guidelines in the area of ??companies, the following requirements must be taken into account for the public sector in Germany:

* The regulations of the provinces and of the federal government (in particular the regulation for services (VOL) and the regulation for professional services (VOF)). These regulate in detail how (eg as free hand awards, public tenders etc.) and in what steps procurement procedures are to be carried out.
* Minimum requirements of the auditors for the use of information and communication technology. These describe the billing guidelines for applications that manage public funds.


Each institution should have clarified in advance of procurements which legal or other framework conditions should be used. For procurements and contract awards, there should be defined processes and designated contact persons in the institution (see M 2.547 Identification and documentation of legal bases for applications).

In any case, it makes sense to clarify in advance what role certificates should play in the award decision. These include certificates that assess the safety of products such as the Common Criteria, those that evaluate the management systems, such as the ISO27001 based on IT-Grundschutz, and also personal certificates (see M 2.66 Considering the Contribution of the Certification for the procurement).



