#M 2.95 Procurement of suitable protective curtains
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Procurement

Protective cabinets can protect their contents against the effects of fire or against unauthorized access. The first thing to be decided is what are the protection goals that should be achieved with a protective cabinet. The next step is to analyze which content should be protected, since z. B. the temperature and humidity sensitivity of documents, data carriers and valuables can vary greatly. Depending on the desired protective effect, the following instructions must be observed when selecting suitable protective cabinets:

* Protection against the effects of fire: With regard to data protection cabinets in accordance with EN 1047-1, a distinction is made between quality classes S60 and S120 with regard to protection against the effects of fire. In these categories, the protective barriers are checked to ensure that tolerable temperatures are maintained for them during a normalized test for the protected data carriers up to a flame time of 60 or 120 minutes , Additions to the classification refer to the data carriers to protect. The abbreviations mean in detail: P = paper documents D = data carrier with load limit value up to 70  C (eg magnetic tapes, films) DIS = data carrier with load limit value up to 50  C (z. . The differences between the classes are in the insulation performance, which is the highest in DIS cabinets. For normal protection needs, data protection should be provided for protection against fire SQ grade S60 suffice. For use as a server barrier, data storage cabinets according to EN 1047-1 or data storage containers according to EN 1047-2 are provided with an air conditioning system. For safety cabinets that protect against fire and smoke, an automatic closing device should be provided Deren the doors are provided in case of fire. The shut-off should be triggered locally by smoke detectors and / or externally by a signal from a fire alarm system (if available).


* Protection against unauthorized access: In addition to the mechanical strength of the protective cabinet, the protection value against unauthorized access is decisively influenced by the value of the lock.For the normal protection requirements, value protection cabinets according to EN 1143-1 - Value requirements, classification and protection Methods for testing resistance to burglary, Part 1: Safes for valuables, Safes for ATMs, safes and safes, or safes according to EN 14450: Valuables - Requirements, classification and methods of pr The resistance against burglary - safety barriers are used. Safety cabinets are below resistance protection in the resistance value. If access protection and fire protection are required in combination, data protection cabinets meeting both the requirements of EN 1143-1 and EN 1047-1 can be used ( so-called duplex cabinets).


When selecting protective enclosures, the permissible ceiling load, ie the load-bearing capacity of the floor, must be taken into account at the installation site. In addition, it should be checked in advance how the protective cabinet can be transported to the site. This includes the ability of the elevators to control the width of the stairs, corridors and doors.

After these selection criteria for the protective value of the protective cabinet, the equipment of the cabinet must be specified as required next. For this purpose, it should be determined before procuring a protective cabinet, which devices or which types of data carriers are to be stored in it. The interior equipment of the protective cabinet must be selected appropriately. Retrofitting is usually difficult because the protective value of the cabinet and its specific approval can be compromised. There should also be room for future expansions.

In server enclosures, there should also be room for a screen and other peripherals, such as the server and a keyboard. Tape Drives can be provided so that on-site administration can be performed. It should be noted that the equipment is ergonomically selected so that administration work on the server can be carried out unhindered. For example, an extendable floor is desirable for the keyboard, which is mounted at a height that allows the administrator to do his sitting work. Depending on the use of the cabinet, air conditioning and / or UPS supply may be required. The corresponding devices should then be accommodated in the cabinet. Otherwise, at least one ventilation must be present. The equipment of the cabinet with a local fire detection system, which interrupts the power supply of the equipment in case of fire (on the input side and the output side of the UPS, if this is available), is recommended.

Not in the same cabinet should be accommodated backup disk and log printer. Backup media would probably also be damaged in the event of server corruption. The logging of actions on the server is also used to control the administrator. So it does not make sense to give him access to the log printouts, if not the only one.



