#M 2.511 Regulation of order data processing in the processing of personal data
Responsible for Initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Data protection officer, specialist responsible

If personal data are processed on behalf of the client, the client remains responsible for compliance with the laws and regulations on data protection. He has to select the contractor carefully.

The order must be given in writing within the scope of the legal requirements and any subcontracting conditions must be specified (  11BDSG). In some areas, additional legal regulations must be observed, eg. Hospital laws of the countries.

Depending on how vulnerable the personal data are to be processed on behalf of the contractor, the requirements for the contract with the contractor must be met: the more vulnerable, the tighter and more precisely the contract. For particularly sensitive processing, outsourcing may be prohibited (eg search data).

Contractors must ensure that data processed in the order are processed only in accordance with the instructions of the client. Subcontracting conditions are subject to the approval of the client.

If the contractor is not a public authority, persons engaged in the processing of personal data should be required to maintain data secrecy when taking up their duties.

With social data the regulations of the social code (SGB) are to be considered. The processing of personal data on behalf of non-public bodies is only permitted if other operational disturbances can occur or partial processes of the automatic data processing can be procured thereby considerably more cost-effectively and the order does not the storage of the entire data of the client comprehensive (  80 Abs. 5 SGB X). The supervisory authorities must have the required notifications.

The client and, if applicable, the responsible data protection officer have a right of control at any time.



