#M 2.542 Secure migration to a cloud service
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, specialist responsible, IT security officer, IT manager

If the institution has selected a cloud service provider for its cloud use project, then various aspects of security must be considered when implementing the migration. The requirements for secure migration should also be applied if a cloud service is brought back into its own institution or it is transferred to another provider.

Basic aspects of planning for a secure migration to a cloud service are described in detail in the M 2.537 Planning for Secure Migration to a Cloud Service. It should be noted that the destination infrastructure for a cloud service is usually provided by the cloud service provider. It is therefore not the subject of the considerations in the context of migration implementation.



## Examples 
* In order to be able to transfer the data of the institution to a cloud service provider, privileged access rights may be necessary. In order to ensure the desired level of safety, it must be ensured that the allocation of access rights takes place exclusively in accordance with the specifications of the planning and that these are withdrawn again after the integration has been completed.
* If the migration is planned and carried out by an external third party and if special regulations are set up during the migration planning, then compliance with them must be examined.
* In the case of a failed or canceled migration, it must be ensured that the necessary measures to delete the already submitted data are realized by the cloud service provider.




