#M 2.438 Secure use of external programs on a Samba server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Many features, such as creating a new user in the Unix system or querying printer status information, are not implemented in Samba.

Samba uses programs of the system on which it is installed to implement these functions. For example, to create a new user in the Unix system, Samba calls the program specified by the add user script parameter. All configuration parameters that Samba uses to call external programs end in the following strings:

* command
* script
* exec
* panic action
* program


In Samba 3, there are about 40 such configuration parameters. With the command:

testparm -vs | grep -E (command =) | (script =) | (exec =) | / (panic action =) | (program =) | wc -l

The exact number of configuration parameters for the currently used Samba version can be displayed. If Samba uses the Common Unix Printing System (CUPS) Application Programming Interface (API) to communicate with the printing system, none of these parameters are set by default, or none of these parameters are used. Whether Samba has been translated and linked with the CUPS library can be checked with the following command:

root # ldd $ (which smbd) | grep 'libcups'

If Samba does not use the CUPS API to communicate with printers, depending on the value of the printing configuration parameter in the smb.conf configuration file, some of the printing system-specific configuration parameters are preset with default values. The following configuration parameters are affected:

* print command
* lpq command
* lprm command
* lppause command
* lpresume command
* queue break command
* queuesume command


Many of the external programs specified via such configuration parameters are executed by Samba with root privileges. It should therefore be ensured that only programs that do not have a faulty function are called by Samba.

With the command

user> testparm -vs | grep -E (command =) | (script =) | (exec =) | / (panic action =) | (program =)

All parameters are output which are responsible for the integration of external programs in Samba. In addition to the parameters, the currently valid values ??are displayed.



