#M 2.283 Software maintenance on routers and switches
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Any operation of software makes it necessary to periodically check and maintain the operating system and configuration. Routers and switches can not be exempted, for example, to enable functional enhancements, fix software bugs, and improve performance and security.

It should be noted that in practice to maintain the operating system routers and switches often requires a complete replacement of the operating system software. Installing updates or patches is not possible in many cases. As with all configuration changes, care must be taken, as improper performance may result in impairments to the function and safety of the equipment. In this respect, a fallback strategy always belongs to the careful planning of a change.



## Examples 
* It must be provided a suitable time window. The required effort should not be underestimated and, as a precaution, a sufficient downtime should be planned.
* The release notes of the new release are to be read carefully.
* New software versions may not contain individual features or may not work correctly. Sometimes default settings change too.
* New versions of a program, and in particular an operating system, must be thoroughly tested before commissioning to ensure full functionality.
* New programs or operating systems may be less efficient, for example because of additional features or higher memory requirements. This can cause problems if a router or switch was already running at capacity utilization prior to the upgrade.




