#M 2.90  Checking the delivery
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT, Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: Procurement

Upon receipt of a delivery, it shall be verified on the basis of the available documentation,

* whether the delivery was ordered,
* for whom she is destined
* whether transport damage can be detected,
* whether it is complete, d. H. whether on the one hand all ordered components and on the other hand all according to product description to the scope of delivery of the product belonging components are present.


The results of these tests are to be documented in a goods receiving directory, together with:

* Product name and version,
* Product type, eg. Eg word processing,
* Scope of delivery, ie description of the individual components including number and form of delivery (book, diskette, CD-ROM, ...),
* Delivery date,
* delivery,
* who received it,
* Repository and
* to whom it was passed on.


For the execution of the functional tests, as well as the subsequent formal release, installation and configuration, the delivered products must be forwarded to the IT department.

If the products are only temporarily used or made available, eg. in the context of tests, at least the serial number and other product-specific identification features must be noted in corresponding inventories. If the delivered products are intended to remain permanently, they must be marked with unique identification features (eg grouped consecutive inventory numbers). After that, they must be added to an inventory. This must be able to give information about:

* Identifiers,
* Procurement sources, delivery times,
* whereabouts
* Release Date,
* Installation date and configuration specifics and
* Maintenance contracts, maintenance intervals.




