#M 2.36 Regulated handover and withdrawal of a portable PC
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Depending on the purpose, laptops and other portable IT systems are only used by a single employee, eg. as a workstation that is also used as a mobile device. They can also be used alternately by different employees, eg. for presentations. Depending on the type of application, various safety requirements arise. Therefore, the purpose and type of use should be carefully planned in advance.

When used as a workstation these are typically used alternately mobile and stationary. It is possible to access different networks. For this, the laptops must be secured in such a way that on the one hand the mobile application can not compromise, manipulate or lose important data from the laptops. On the other hand, laptops should not introduce any danger into the internal networks.

When laptops are used in turn by different people, a controlled handover is extremely important. For this to work, a laptop pool should be set up (see M 1.35 Group Storage of Portable IT Systems).

When handing over and taking back a portable IT system, the following points should be noted:



## Examples 
* The new user is prompted to change the old password of the laptop or the default password immediately upon transfer.
* The new user should be given a leaflet on how to use the portable IT system safely.
* In order to make it comprehensible at all times where the devices are located, each user should be entered in a transfer / withdrawal journal with name, organizational unit, telephone number, purpose.




