#M 2.478 Planning the safe use of Mac OS X
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Controlled and secure adoption of Mac OS X requires extensive planning. In this measure, software-technical aspects are discussed in order to allow a smooth project implementation. The hardware components used in a Mac system are given by Apple and therefore manageable. However, the processor has a big difference between the previous and current Mac systems. Mac OS X does not support PowerPC processors in Snow Leopard (10.6). An installation of Mac OS X 10.6 on older Apple computers without Intel CPU is not possible. Switching from Apple PowerPC-based computers to Intel-based Intel-based computers requires a preliminary check to see if they are universal, meaning applications running on both PowerPC processors and Intel processors are audible.

When changing platforms from another operating system to Mac OS X, it must also be checked in advance whether the same or equivalent applications are available for Mac OS X and whether they are compatible with existing systems (such as a Lotus Domino server or Mac OS X) Microsoft Exchange server) are compatible. This not only applies to the applications that are operated directly on the client, but also server-based applications, with certain conditions. For example, certain web-based applications require ActiveX. ActiveX is not available on Mac OS X. Existing software that is not compatible with Mac OS X can be run using a software virtualization solution. However, this can only be regarded as an emergency solution since, on the one hand, higher demands are placed on the hardware and it is many times more complex to operate an application in a virtualized environment.

In general, it should be checked whether existing software license agreements also cover Mac OS X systems. If not, future licensing agreements should, as far as possible, ensure that software is selected that can be operated on different platforms or whose license agreements permit use on other platforms.

When introducing Mac OS X systems, it must also be checked if existing external hardware such as printers, plotters, card readers or other devices are compatible with Mac OS X and the corresponding devices drivers are available. It also needs to be checked whether the network protocols used are supported by Mac OS X in order to be able to establish a connection between different IT systems. For example, if the Andrew File System Protocol (AFS) is used as a distributed network file system, you must first select a suitable client for Mac OS X.



## Examples 
* Is it ensured that administrators use an account with unprivileged rights for all non-administrative work?
* Is there a user and administration concept in Mac OS X?
* Is there a logging concept used for Mac OS X?




