#M 2.177 Safety when moving
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: IT Security Officer, Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT, Head of Organization

In addition to furniture, a variety of data carriers (eg paper, magnetic tapes, CD-ROMs, DVDs, removable hard disks) and IT systems must be transported back and forth during a move. Information, IT systems and other materials leave the secure area of ??the banking environment and are transported by personnel who normally have no access rights. In case of a move, especially if larger parts of the organization are affected by this, a certain amount of confusion can never be ruled out and not every moving box can be permanently supervised personally. Nevertheless, care must be taken to ensure that sensitive data is neither lost, damaged nor made accessible to unauthorized persons when moving.

Relocation planning should involve information security management and the DPO as early as possible in order to define the framework to be defined from the information security point of view:

* When planning a move, it must be specified in advance who will move where and with which goods to be transported (creation of a move concept). This should be a matter of course anyway, so that the work can be resumed as smoothly as possible after the move.
* Depending on the protection requirements of the data, it must be determined which boundary conditions are to be observed for the transport. For example, lockable transport containers should be used for sensitive data (see M 2.44 Secure packaging of data carriers or the data carriers should be encrypted prior to transport.
* Data backups should be made prior to each transport of IT systems. In addition to the modalities described in M 6.35 Definition of the procedure for data backup, it should be noted in particular that the data backups can under no circumstances be transported together with the secure IT systems. This ensures that not all storage media are damaged or lost at the same time.
* A leaflet (removal leaflet) should be prepared for all concerned employees, in which all safety measures to be carried out are described in detail.


In a move, not only the transport is a critical phase, but also the period shortly before or after. Experience has shown that many things are lost in this phase, because at that time the standard safety procedures such as eg. the access control is not yet effective. Even during the move, certain minimum organizational requirements should therefore be met:

* For all materials to be transported, documents should be issued stating whether a particular mode of transport should be observed (eg fragile, computer special transport, etc.), whether a particular type of packaging should be selected (eg. in the case of data carriers with confidential information), to where they are to be brought (exact building, floor and room description), who are authorized recipients of the transported objects, who has picked them up or delivered them (including name, Date and Time).
* The goods to be transported must be marked in such a way that they can be clearly identified, so that the transport route can also be reconstructed. The label should not, however, allow any conclusions as to the sensitivity of the content. The type of marking should be chosen so that it can not easily be imitated and become. The relocation preparers could provide special labels for this purpose. Care must be taken to ensure that the labels can be peeled off the objects without leaving any residue, without damaging or contaminating the items to be moved.
* Even during a move, there should be no disorderly coming and going. The contracted removal companies should announce in advance the personal details of the intended employees. In the case of sudden personnel changes (vacation, illness, etc.), the names of the replacement staff should be communicated at short notice. With a list of names of those involved in the relocation, the nurses or other internal employees can then inspect sporadically or continuously depending on the property and circumstances. The external forces involved in the move should be provided with clearly visible badges (possibly with names) so that it is clear who is authorized to join.
* The goods to be transported, in particular the data carriers, must be stored safely before and after the move. The rooms in which no relocation activities take place, but in which there are no employees, so z. For example, those that have not yet been cleared or have already been granted should be completed.


After the move has taken place, an orderly operation should be started as soon as possible. First of all, the infrastructural and organizational security in the new offices must be restored, ie, for example.

* should access control be fully resumed,
* should the fire loads be removed from the corridors, d. H. the moving boxes are moved to new workplaces,
* the delivered removals are to check that it is complete and fully functional and has not been tampered with,
* the completeness of the goods to be moved should be checked immediately by each employee and, if necessary, a loss list should be prepared. For this purpose, the affected person could also be given a form that had already been prepared in advance, in which the removed removal goods can already be listed. Thus, even the absence representative due to leave, illness or urgent business activities of the colleagues concerned immediately notice the absence of parts of the moving goods and report. The employee to be represented should receive a copy from this in order to be able to report any discrepancies afterwards.


Special care should be taken on the relocation planning for all servers and network switches, as even if only one component fails, the entire network may not be operational.

Before relocating, the central IT administration should take various precautions to ensure a smooth workflow:

* Before the start of the relocation phase, a plan for the necessary changes to the user connection should be made in good time. In particular, it should be analyzed whether new procurements are required for smoothly changing the computer connection of employees. Also for security reasons, it is important to know which changes result from the move in the communication behavior of the IT systems. For example, depending on the protection needs of employees, it may be necessary to encrypt a network connection or prevent access to certain data assets.
* Before an employee relocates, it should be ensured that he can be reached in his new office via the local network and that his applications and services are operational. In addition to changes to the terminal (routing, software configuration, etc.), this may also require rapid changes on the server side in the LAN or even on routers in the WAN. Here it may be necessary to set up new addresses or routes and delete old ones. It may be necessary to procure and set up new network components beforehand.
* When moving, it is often necessary to set up user accounts on a new server for the affected employees. It must be ensured that the required rights and access to applications and protocols are set up. The security settings of the user environment must also be maintained in accordance with its security profile. Old user entries and terminal access entries must be adjusted or deleted on the old system. Nevertheless, access to user-defined data areas should remain granted to him for a transitional period, but with a mandatory reference to deletion after a waiting period. After this waiting period, the deletion must be completed by the administrator.


Special precautions should be taken when relocating the components of the data center, such as data or communication servers. The following describes measures that should ensure the shortest possible downtime of the components.

* If possible, a new server should be pre-installed and tested in the new location. If this is not possible, then the old server should be preconfigured as well as possible and only be switched over after sufficient advance notice at a time when little access is to be expected. Here, the old configuration should always be secured in advance.
* The server should be completely secured before the move. If not already available, a bootable backup medium must also be created. Sensitive server parts such as hard disks should be kept redundant as an image for the failure of the original and should be transported separately from the server. It must be ensured that the data backup and the image as well as the server are secured during transport (eg encryption, locked box, security).
* Before moving, ensure that the infrastructure is present and tested in the new premises for proper server operation. In addition to the presence of the network (electricity, LAN, WAN), it is important to pay attention to the correct order of the move of the components. It makes little sense, for example, to have the Internet web server moved first, if the firewall with its communication router is built much later.
* Before the move, it should be checked whether the IT components to be transported are those that require special environmental conditions during the move. For example, there are controllers for larger (and more expensive!) IT systems that need not only be operated in air-conditioned rooms, but also air-conditioned.


Furthermore, it should be ensured that the new telephone numbers are already reachable as soon as the employees have moved into their new offices. When moving within a location should try to keep the old phone numbers at least temporarily. During the move, telephone accessibility should be guaranteed both in the old and in the new property, so that any problems that arise are possible at any time.



