#M 2.497 Creation of a security concept for logging
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

In order for the logging to take place in a secure framework, a security concept must be created. It contains all aspects concerning the secure use of logging, such as which data is collected and how long it should be stored, how the evaluation must be made and how the log data is sent over the network in a central logging.

The following list identifies some important areas that should be covered in the concept. However, it is not complete and must be adapted, designed and expanded to suit the application scenarios in the institution. Detailed information on the mentioned aspects can be found in the individual measures of B 1.0 Safety Management.

In a security concept it is regulated how, where and what should be logged with which protection requirements. This also includes the decision whether to log locally or centrally, see also M 3.90 General basics for central logging. It is usually easier to gain an overview of the security-related occurrences in the information network if a central logging server is used, which brings together the different log data, analyzes it and monitors it. Among other things, the following aspects are relevant:

* Is central logging necessary or can the log data be stored and evaluated locally?
* How should the servers be protected with a central logging?
* Where should a central logging server be placed in the network?
* Which synchronized and exact time base is used by the log messages?
* How are logging servers securely shut down?


It must be decided which IT systems, networks and applications are to be taken into account in the security concept for logging. In general, all security-relevant events of IT systems such as servers, clients, network elements and security gateways should be logged and evaluated, as described in M 4.430 Analysis of log data. The following questions may be useful for this:

* Which events should be recorded by the logging?
* Which services, applications and which hosts are logged?
* In which format should the information be collected and processed?


So that all functions and security features of the logging can be used optimally, it is important to train the administrators accordingly, see also M 3.89 Training for the Administration of Logging. Training should provide information about how to set up and operate the components of a logging server, as well as about administration. Among other things, the listed points are important:

* Who is allowed to access the logging data for what purpose?
* Which administration tasks should be delegated?
* What training should administrators get regarding logging?
* How are the activities of the administrators monitored?


The collected log information can be evaluated locally or at a central logging server. This is described in M 4.431 Selection and processing of relevant information for logging. In the case of the central analysis, the protocol information must be transmitted via the network to a central server. Here, the communication between the IT systems involved must be adequately secured, see M 5.171 Secure communication with a central logging server. The following aspects should be considered:

* With which mechanisms are the availability, confidentiality and integrity of the protocol data protected during the transmission?
* Can the log file   be transferred over the data network (in-band) or do you need to set up your own logging and administration network? (Out of Band)
* Is there a sufficiently accurate timebase to sync all log sources?


If certain events occur or thresholds are exceeded, for example, an alarm should be triggered by e-mail or SMS. For example, to reduce the number of false alarms and inform the relevant persons quickly, it is important to be able to carry out a meaningful alert. Further information can be found in M 6.151 Alerting concept for logging. The following questions can be helpful for this:

* Which filter settings are necessary to find the relevant information in the log data?
* How and for how long will log data be archived and will that comply with the privacy policy?
* How do you set the thresholds to avoid false positives and false negatives?
* How to respond to alarms?
* How are the responsible persons informed about alarms?


Data protection plays an important role in logging, since it specifies what is to be logged and what is not to be logged and how to handle the logged data (see M 2.110 Data protection aspects of logging).

The security concept for logging must be coordinated with the overall security concept of the institution. In addition, it is regularly updated and adapted to changes in technology as well as to changes within the institution.



