#M 2.288 Creation of security guidelines for z / OS systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Before z / OS systems are deployed, security policies must be planned and specified for the z / OS system and, in particular, for the RACF (Resource Access Control Facility) security system. The following recommendations should be considered:

* The z / OS systems must be integrated into the company or authority-wide security management.


* As described in measure M 2.30 User / User Group Setup, a procedure shall be established to manage the users of the z / OS system and their identifiers.


* It is necessary to create a policy for the use of the emergency user (see measure M 6.93 Emergency preparedness for z / OS systems).


* A policy for restoring the RACF database on z / OS must be created (see measure M 6.93 Emergency preparedness for z / OS systems).
* An authorization process for accessing security-critical system resources, such as: Authorized Programming Facility (.APF) files, SVCs (SuperVisor Calls), etc. must be described and implemented.


* An audit procedure as described in measure M .2.291 Security reporting and audits under z / OS, or a monitoring procedure as described in measure M 2.292 Monitoring of z / OS systems, m  be established.


* An escalation and reporting procedure must be established. It must specify who recognizes security violations, retransmissions and which defensive measures are to be taken.


* Documentation on the structure and function of an emergency system, as described in measure M 6.93 Emergency preparedness for z / OS systems, must be written (only applies to individual systems).


* A checklist with control questions should be created, which records all important safety-related settings of the z / OS system and defines their target values. This checklist is used to create the work instructions for the system and RACF administrators. The test list is used by the auditor as the basis for checking system security. The list must be revised at regular intervals. The basis for such a checklist can be the measures M 4.211 Use of the z / OS security system RACF and M 4.209 Secure basic configuration of z / OS systems.




