#M 2.218 Regulation of the transport of data carriers and IT components
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The IT components used within an in-house property are generally adequately protected against misuse and theft by infrastructural security measures. Frequently, however, IT systems or data carriers should also be used outside the home, eg. on business trips or teleworking. In order to be able to adequately protect these too, the transport of data carriers and IT components must be clearly regulated.

It must be determined

* which IT components or data carriers may be taken outside the home,


* who is allowed to take IT components or data carriers out of the house,


* which basic IT security measures must be observed (virus protection, encryption of sensitive data, storage, etc.).


The type and extent of security measures to be applied to externally deployed IT components depends on the one hand on the protection requirements of the IT applications and data stored on them and on the other hand on the security of the deployment or storage locations.

In principle, all IT components that are to be used externally should be appropriately licensed.

For larger institutions, where access to the property is controlled by the Pfister or guard services, consideration should be given as to whether they should be instructed to randomly check the extent to which the rules governing the Transport of data carriers and IT components.

Outside of the organization's properties, users are responsible for protecting the IT entrusted to them. These and the precautions to be taken should be noted. These include the following rules:

* IT systems must always be stored safely. On business trips they should not be left unattended. In particular, they should not be left in vehicles (see also M 1.33 Suitable storage of portable IT systems in mobile use).


* IT systems such as laptops or mobile phones and their applications can generally be protected by PINs or passwords. These mechanisms should also be used.


* IT systems or data carriers containing sensitive data should be completely encrypted as far as possible (see also M 4.29 Use of an Encryption Product for Portable IT Systems). If IT systems enable encryption without any additional resources, it is recommended that these functions be used even if only less sensitive data is contained on the IT systems.


* The administration, maintenance and transfer of externally used IT systems should be regulated. For example, pools can be set up for this purpose (see also M 1.35 Group Storage of Portable IT Systems or M .2.190 Setup of a Mobile Telephone Pool).


* It should be logged when and by whom which IT components were used outside the home.




