#M 2.527 Safe deletion in SAN environments
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

If the data recorded in a storage solution is no longer needed, it must be deleted. In module B 1.15, institutions can find a large number of relevant measures for the secure deletion of data in the deletion and destruction of data. In particular, M 2.431 regulation of the procedure for the deletion or destruction of information addresses the problem of selective data deletion, which is also important in modern memory solutions.

The secure deletion of data in SAN environments presents a particular challenge, especially when used by different clients, such as those found in cloud storage. Therefore, the implementation of additional measures is recommended here.

Safe Disconnect Procedures in SAN Environments must be considered in the planning of emergency testing and training of storage solutions (see also M 6.98 Emergency Preparedness and Emergency Response for Storage Solutions). In such tests and exercises, large amounts of data are generated in a short time in many LUNs with possibly different protection requirements, which must be deleted after the test has been completed. The same applies if LUNs have been copied in the event of a disaster and have been duplicated after the disaster has been mastered.

In principle, the following ways of deleting data in SAN environments exist:

* Deleting a Logical Disk in a Storage System (LUN): When a LUN is deleted, the logical structures on the attached disks, RAID groups, or disk pools are broken, thus releasing the capacity of the deleted LUN. No physical blocks are zeroed out, so they are overwritten with patterns. The access to the data of a LUN from the application point of view is no longer possible as a result, since a deleted LUN can not be restored with the on-board means of a storage system. After deleting the LUN, it becomes unclear which sectors of a storage unit or hard disk were assigned to the LUN in what form, so that attackers can only obtain access at the bit or byte level, but not at contiguous data sets. Restoring the data of a LUN is extremely expensive and requires physical access to the storage media. Under certain circumstances, attackers can use special forensic tools to break through the logical structure.
* Multiple overwriting of the data of a LUN: Starting from the assigned server, the data of a LUN is overwritten (several times) with specified data or random pattern. Depending on the requirement for data deletion of an institution, a certified deletion according to US standard DoD 5220-22.M is possible. Institutions can avail themselves of this on the market of available software. In addition, the execution of a certified deletion can often be commissioned in the form of a service by the manufacturer of the storage solution. The data overwritten in this way can not be restored afterwards. It should be noted, however, that certified data deletion based on LUN can only be ensured on the server side, since the storage systems themselves do not offer this option. Deleting data in this way results in increased write activity in a portion of the storage solution that can also be used by other tenants. When deleting, it must be ensured that no data of other clients is thereby impaired and that the intended services continue to be available to the other clients. It should also be noted that inSAN environments this method does not necessarily work, for example, when different disks are available for different activity modes. For example, if a LUN is in the range intended for low write activity and then high activity is generated by multiple overwriting, such SANs will copy this LUN into the high write activity area. Then only this new LUN will be overwritten, but the data in the lower write activity area will be overridden.
* Clearing Data from a Storage System: If you want to override the entire data in a storage system by using a certified method, then vendors of storage solutions often provide this as a service.
* Disk Retention: If Disk Retention is agreed in the maintenance contract with the manufacturer, defective hard disks will remain in the institution in the event of a fault and will not be handed over to the manufacturer. The responsibility for the secure erasure of the contents of the hard disks is the responsibility of the institution. As a rule, the defective hard disks are physically destroyed by the institution. Disk retention is often associated with higher costs, but should also be checked with normal protection requirements regarding confidentiality.


The illustrated methods for erasing data in a memory system are multi-layered and complex. Therefore, an institution's leader should be aware that special attention must be given to the safe erasure of data.

However, due to the operation of modern SAN environments, recovering data is extremely costly, so currently, with normal protection needs, deleting a LUN is considered sufficiently secure.

The overwriting of a LUN including all possible memory segments should be checked in case of an increased confidentiality protection requirement.

If a storage solution is taken out of operation, the contents of measure M 2.361 Take-out of storage solutions must be implemented.



