#M 2.584 Controlled decommissioning of a network and system management tool
Responsible for Initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In a network and system management tool, data is collected, processed and stored via the network and the connected systems. These data may include IP addresses, user names, and names of IT systems, among others. Therefore, it is important to ensure that HDDs and other storage media are no longer worth seeing when the tool is being decommissioned. All media must be securely erased before being shared, repaired, or discarded.

In the case of a repair, it is not sufficient to just format the hard disks or to use deletion functions of the operating system. They must be overwritten with appropriate deletion programs so that the data can not be restored. For more information on how to safely delete and destroy data carriers, see M 2.167 Choosing appropriate methods for deleting or destroying data. If data carriers have to be left out of hand without secure data erasure (eg repair, return to the manufacturer during the warranty period), this is dependent on the sensibility of the data by contract Regulations and possibly with claims for damages to prevent unwanted information flows taking place or being exploited by attackers. It may be necessary to waive warranty claims.

If a network and system management tool is eliminated, it is recommended to mechanically destroy (shred) the storage media in addition to the erasure. If the storage media can not be destroyed promptly, they must be protected from unauthorized access until they are destroyed. Magnetic storage media can also be electromagnetically quenched by means of a degausser.

If the data carriers are deleted by third parties, the order must, inter alia, be awarded according to data protection requirements and a contract data processing contract must be concluded.



