#M 2.536 Service definition for cloud services by the user
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer

If an institution decides to use cloud services, a corresponding service definition must be worked out. The IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) defines a service as the ability to generate added value for a client. For this purpose, the achievement of the results sought by the client should be facilitated or promoted. The client himself has no responsibility for certain costs or risks.

Applied to the cloud usage, this means that an added value can only be generated by a commissioned service provider, as long as the desired results within the institution are actually known and documented. The basis for the careful definition of the cloud services to be used is the requirements of the institution, as defined in the context of the measures M 2.534 Creation of a Cloud Usage Strategy and M 2.535 Creation of a Security Guideline for the Cloud Services To identify and document cloud usage. It's a good idea to have a unified list that provides a clear overview of all the cloud services you plan to use. For example, this provides the creation of so-called service templates according toITILan. Possible contents in this connection are:

* Service desk and service name
* Summary
* category
* Sub or secondary services
* variants
* Technical parameters
* Service Parameters / SLA
* SLA measurement
* Validity of the service (period)
* Service handover
* Methods of costing
* Price / settlement
* Contact person for the service
* Beneficiaries and requestors
* requirements


Within the framework of the service definition for cloud services, the institution should at least address the following aspects, which are described in more detail below.



## Examples 
* Does a defined fallback level exist if the client software fails?
* Are any dependencies or incompatibilities to be expected in connection with the existing IT infrastructure?
* Can the client software be easily integrated into the existing processes of change management or are adjustments necessary? Further information can be found in M 2.221 Change management or B 1.14 Patch and change management.
* Does the client software meet the institution's requirements for existing testing and approval processes?




