#M 3.70 Introduction to virtualization
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

With the so-called virtualization of IT systems, a technology is available with which one or more virtual IT systems can be operated on one physical computer. Such a physical computer is called a virtualization server. This technique has been used since the 1970s in mainframes (egIBM zSeries). However, it only found its end in the late 1990s in the field of midrange servers. Examples of software products for virtualizing IT systems with x86 architecture are Microsoft Virtual PC / Server, Parallels Virtuozzo, Sun VirtualBox, VMware Workstation / Server / ESX and Xen. Another example is SUN Solaris Zones, which is available for Solaris SPARC and INTEL platforms. Furthermore, for the Enterprise Series of SUN servers, a hardware-supported virtualization (here called partitioning) is possible via the use of so-called domains. In the area of ??the zSeries mainframes, for example, virtualization can be used via the use of logical partitions (LPARs, hardware-supported virtualization) or via the product z / VM (software-supported) (see also B 3.107 p / 390 and zSeries mainframe).

Virtualization technology has quickly become a strategic tool for improving the utilization and consolidation of server systems by allowing many services to be concentrated on one physical server system, without sacrificing the distribution of services among individual IT systems. This makes better use of the resources of the physical servers and can often result in savings in server operation. These savings are not only based on the number of physical IT systems to be used, but also on electricity costs, server room and data center space, and air conditioning. It is also possible to use virtualization to speed up processes for deploying new servers, since, for example, an order need not be made for each new server system. For some virtualization solutions, virtual IT systems can be copied, which can simplify installation processes, or create snapshots of virtual IT systems that allow them to "fail" configuration change quickly to restore the original state.

Several virtualization servers can also be combined into a so-called virtual infrastructure. In such a virtual infrastructure, several virtualization servers are managed together with the virtual IT systems running on them. This allows further functions. For example, virtual IT systems can be moved from one virtualization server to another. This can sometimes be done while the virtual IT system is in operation (live migration). Furthermore, there are ways to increase the availability of virtual IT systems. For example, using live migration, virtual systems can always be moved to the virtualization server, which can currently provide the best performance for running the virtual machine. Another possibility is to automatically restart virtual IT systems on another virtualization server if, for example, the original virtualization server has failed due to a hardware failure.

The rich possibilities for manipulation of the virtual IT systems by the virtualization software make virtualization servers particularly suitable for setting up test and development environments. With virtualization, it is possible to rapidly deploy IT systems for testing and development and build complex environments quickly and efficiently. Furthermore, productive virtual IT systems can be copied for a test and development environment, so that updates and adjustments can be tested without disrupting productive operation.



## Examples 
* every virtual IT system for the running software is almost like a standalone physical computer (encapsulation),
* the individual virtual IT systems are isolated from each other and can only communicate with each other via established paths (isolation),
* The individual virtual IT systems can access hardware resources in an orderly manner.




