#M 3.64 Introduction to Active Directory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Active Directory is the central data store for all the administrative data of a domain based on the server operating systems Windows Server 2000 and Windows 2003 Server. The server operating systems are summarized below under the term Windows server. From an abstract perspective, the Active Directory forms a hierarchical and tree-like, object-based database. It is based on the directory service standard X.500, from which it has borrowed the internal structure and structure. However, it is not an X.500 compatible directory service.

At the domain level, the Windows server domain concept is in principle similar to the Windows NT domain concept: computers and users are combined in one domain and can be managed by the domain administrator. A domain boundary is basically an administrative limit and also limits the scope of permissions. In addition to this concept, Windows servers offer tree-like relationships between domains so that father-child relationships can exist between domains. A child domain is also referred to as a subdomain because the name of the child domain derives from the name of the parent domain, where the name of the domain is denoted by a period is appended separately.

Example: Name of the father domain: unternehmen.de Name of the subdomain: verwaltung.unternehmen.de

The namespace thus spanned is identical to the corresponding DSN name space and can not be formed differently from it. Dom nen, which have a common name stem, form a tree (English Tree).



Domes that are located in several trees - so spanning different namespaces - can still be managed together.

Such united Dom nenb ume form a forest (English Forest). In particular, a single single Dom ne also forms a tree and at the same time a forest.

In a forest there is always an excellent domain, which has a certain special status. It is the first created domain, also known as forest root domain (FRD, root domain of the forest). The special feature is that administrators of the forest root domain have far-reaching permissions throughout the forest. For the members of the group Organizational Admins, the domain boundaries do not represent any administrative boundaries as they have access rights in all domains. When building a Windows domain federation, keep in mind that the domain created first is always the forest root domain. In particular, the role of the forest root domain can not be subsequently transferred to another domain, so that the domain structure may have to be completely recreated in the desired form.

The Active Directory consists of various objects, the Active Directory Objects (ADOs). Each object has an excellent type, such as. User object or computer object, and is composed of various attributes according to this type. The various object attributes can hold different values, such as. Phone number or IP address. The Active Directory knows different predefined object types:

* Dom nen object: This object is the root of all Active Directory objects of a domain and contains information about the domains, such as: For example the name. Below a Dom nen object other objects can be arranged.
* Grouping Objects: These objects are used to group other objects together. By default, the object Organizational Unit (OU) is available. Below an OU object, further OU objects can be contained, as well as computer, user and user group objects.
* Calculator object: This object represents Windows client computers. Below a computer object, no further objects can be arranged. The Active Directory is designed only for the administration of Windows computers, so that computer objects can exclusively represent Windows computers that work together with the Active Directory. These are standard computers with the operating systems from Windows NT. For other versions of Windows, such as: Windows 98, Active Directory login components are available.
* User object: This object represents domain users. Below a user object, no further objects can be arranged.
* User Group Objects: These so-called security groups represent Windows groups. There are several types of groups that differ in scope (domain-wide, forest-wide) and in the possible group members (domain, forest objects). A distinction is made between local, domain-local, global and universal groups. Security groups are used to grant permissions. Compared to Windows NT, a significantly larger number of groups (tens of thousands for larger companies) can be expected in a Windows server. It may be necessary to consider a tool-based administration. This can be done via self-written scripts as well as via third-party products. Whether and which tools are useful here, however, must be decided on a case-by-case basis.


The general Active Directory structure can be represented as follows:

* The Dom nen object is the root of the Active Directory tree of a domain.
* OU objects are created under the Dom nen object in order to combine computer, user and user group objects in a structured manner. Since OU objects can be nested, the result is an organization-specific tree structure.


After a standard installation, there is a simple and flat Active Directory structure that is created by a Windows server and then has to be changed according to Active Directory planning. Since Active Directory is primarily used to administer a Windows system, when setting up the Active Directory structure, care should be taken to ensure that the structure is primarily adapted to administrative circumstances. If, instead, the organizational structure of an institution is reproduced down to the smallest detail, this can lead to problems in the administration.

The possible arrangements of Active Directory objects, ie. The definition of which object may contain which other objects, which attributes exist and which attributes are used to assemble objects is defined by the so-called Active Directory schema. The Microsoft Active Directory schema can also be changed. However, this represents a serious interference with the Active Directory, which may only be carried out after careful planning. A schema change affects all shared domains, ie. in the forest or forest, out. Since the schema change is a critical operation, it can only be performed on exactly one machine, the so-called schema master, by members of the Schema Admins group. Schema changes may also occur. no longer be made retrocessive. Membership in this group is therefore strictly restrictive and strictly controlled.

The members of the Enterprise Admins group, which by default is the administrator of the Forest Root Domain, have special powers in all domains of the network.

You can z. B. Add new domains to the forest and have administrator rights on all domain controllers of the Active Directory.

Within a single domain, the administration is done by members of the respective (domain-specific) domain domain admins group. This group has unrestricted administrative privileges within a domain. However, it is also possible to enable individual administrative tasks for other user accounts and thus to delegate administrative tasks (see also M 2.230 Active Directory Administration Planning).

A delegation of administrative tasks within a domain can also be done by simply delegating the administration of part of the user accounts and computers of a domain. This is possible within the limits of the OUs that are used to group user or computer accounts within the domain.

A variety of Windows client configuration parameters are grouped in Group Policy. In addition to the local group policies on each Windows client machine, there are also group policies that are stored in the Active Directory. This allows computers or user accounts to be centrally configured. The scope of such a group policy stored in the AD can be, inter alia, whole domains or OUs. Here, OUs are used to group identically configured computers or user accounts. Because OUs can be nested and multiple group policies can be connected to a single OU, many different group policies may be applied to a single machine (see also M 2.231 Group Policy Planning on Windows and M 2.326 Group Policy Planning) r clients from Windows XP).

To store the data, a relational, transactional database is used. This database is distributed on special servers, the domain controllers. The domain controller uses the Active Directory to provide centralized authentication and authorization of users and computers in a domain. The following protocols are used:

* Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) to query Active Directory objects and attributes
* Kerberos for the authentication of users and computers
* CIFS (Common Internet File System) for the transfer of files in the computer network
* DNS (Domain Name System) for the name resolution of computer systems in the network


With some exceptions, each domain controller will only contain the data of its own domain. These exceptions are:

* Each domain controller contains the schema and configuration data for the entire forest.
* At least one domain controller of each domain additionally contains the Global Catalog.


The Active Directory is held on domain controllers and synchronized within a domain between them through replication. The Active Directory of a domain contains only domain-related information. In order to be able to quickly access information from the entire forest in a forest, the so-called Global Catalog (GC) is set up. It consists of partial information from Active Directory objects and is replicated throughout the forest so that information from other domains can be directly accessed via the Global Catalog in one domain.

In addition to the described tree-like and hierarchical structure, Windows Server automatically builds an additional and orthogonal structure. Locally close computers - this determines Windows servers over network durations - are summarized in so-called locations (English sites). About Sites u. a. also controlled the replication structure of Dom nen controllers. There must be at least one computer per site that holds a copy of the Global Catalog. The Global Catalog must be requested as part of a user's login process, so that a Global Catalog server must always be accessible when logging on. The location structure automatically created by Windows-Server should be adapted to the authority's or company's internal circumstances, such as: Locations in different cities or countries to be customized. However, because this affects the Active Directory replication relationships, there is a concept to create.

These roles are also referred to as Flexible Single Master Operations (FSMO) roles in Windows Server terminology. Certain changes can therefore only be made on the computer to which the respective role is assigned.

Matching the data between each domain controller can be done through two different replication mechanisms. Which mechanism is used can be configured in the same way as the times in which the replication takes place.

Due to the concept of distributed databases some resilience of the Active Directory can be achieved, but problematic are the owners of the FSMO roles.

As of Windows 2000 Server, Active Directory data is replicated between the domain controllers of an organization using multi-master replication. Each domain controller thus has a replica of Active Directory that can be modified and used as a basis for future replication. Using multiple domain controllers in an institution creates redundant copies of Active Directory and minimizes the likelihood of catastrophic failure.

Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



