#M 3.66 Basic concepts of patch and change management
Responsible for initiation: Change Manager, IT Security Officer, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Change Manager

The patch and change management process provides, manages, and manages a variety of updates and enhancements to the production environment. In this area, a variety of concepts have established themselves. These must be known to the persons involved in the execution of the process.

With version names very different names are common. This is due to the fact that there is no single, binding, general standard for the definition of a term. When going through the products to be created, such as. Hard- or software different stages of development. Due to the not exactly defined terms, it is recommended to use a glossary within the institution in order to ensure a uniform understanding of all technical terms.

The first runnable version of a product is often called the alpha version. The alpha version is often for internal use, eg. to demonstrate that a software project is feasible. It therefore usually already contains the most important basic functions.

A beta version is an unfinished product version, which is often released by the developer for test and presale purposes. The essential functions of the product are already available, but not tested in depth. Beta versions are distributed to so-called beta testers, which check the functionality and usability of the product and report any errors to the developers. Software typically finds a large number of programming errors.

For software development, Release Candidate (RC) or Release Candidate means a final trial. In this version, all functions which should be included in the final version of the software are available. This version type serves a final system or product test. Only additional RCs will be published if serious quality problems are identified.

The finished and published version of a software is referred to as a release or stable and is usually additionally provided with a version number. Since the production of the media (CDs or DVDs) is also started at this time, the term Ready to Manufacturing (RTM) is often used.

Many software developers have published mechanisms for handling software fixes. The following terms are not always consistently used consistently. Overall, however, they provide the necessary overview of the conceptual world in this subject area.

Software fixes are released to fix bugs in previously released software. A patch is a general software update that fixes malfunctions in a software. First of all, such an update is not critical and not relevant to security. If the update is relevant to the security of the software, so if a vulnerability is closed, it is often called a security patch. A security patch is often given a severity rating. This usually refers to how seriously the manufacturer keeps the vulnerabilities that the security patch fixes. If the update corrects a significant functionality of the software, which is not necessarily relevant to security, for example a wrong calculation, it is often referred to as a critical update.

Another publication by the manufacturer, which, however, only refers to special customer situations and is often provided only with a valid support contract or is only created on the basis of support requests, has the name Hotfix. A hotfix can be a single package of one or more files to fix a problem in a product.

A service pack, on the other hand, is a cumulative collection of hotfixes, security patches, critical updates, and updates that have been released since the product was launched and are available to the general public.

The period until the release of service packs is often very long. In addition, a summary may be useful for providing the amount of software corrections available in between. Therefore, some manufacturers publish in between so-called update roll-ups. The update roll-ups are a collection of security patches, critical updates, updates, and hotfixes that are offered cumulatively or for a single product component, such as a web server.

After the release of service packs, the available product series are often increased by a number in the decimal point range. This is to document that the software products already contain all corrections available up to this point. Some manufacturers also refer to this as an integrated service pack.

Due to the different requirements of customers, which are addressed to the manufacturer, he often finds himself forced to integrate new options (features) into the product, which extend the functionality of a product. These functionality extensions are usually offered to all customers with valid contractual relationships with the manufacturer (support contract, update contract, software maintenance contract or similar) as a feature pack. The new features usually flow into the next product version.

Two types of changes to IT components are commonplace in business practice. Standardized changes and changes that must undergo the patch and change management process.

Standard changes are changes to applications and IT systems for which accurate procedures exist and which were previously approved by the Change Manager.

The written procedure must ensure that the risk associated with the change can be neglected. The change can be made without contacting a change manager again. This significantly reduces the amount of work required by the persons responsible for the process.

One of the reasons for hardware or software changes is disruption. Incident is a departure from the standard operation of an IT service that actually or potentially reduces the quality of service or even interrupts the service.

If the cause for a disturbance is not recognizable, then there is a problem to be investigated more closely. The term problem identifies one or more similar failures of unknown cause in ITIL. When the underlying cause is identified and a way to resolve or work around the problem becomes known, the problem becomes a known error (known error). The solution is documented in a Request for Change (RfC) and implemented under the control of change management.

In addition to the specific terminology of patch and change management (for example, from ITIL), people involved in patch and change management should be familiar with the terminology of information security.

Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



