#M 3.93 Analysis of target groups for awareness raising and training programs
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, supervisor

If an awareness-raising and training program is created for an institution, the respective target groups must be defined in the concept (see also M 2.312 Conception of an information security training and awareness-raising program). For this purpose, a detailed target group analysis should be carried out, so that measures can be focused on special requirements and different backgrounds.

For example, employees with comparable professional backgrounds, knowledge or tasks can be brought together to form a target group. A practicable approach is also to derive the target groups from the organizational units. As a rule, it can be assumed here that employees work with comparable technology and similar specifications.

Another criterion is events that occur within an employee's career. Count on it. B.Return, change of tasks or departments, relocation, change of technology, changes in the existing organization or leaving the institution.

Examples of possible target groups and their characteristics:

management level

The members of the management level act as role models for the employees. However, they also often have little time, so awareness-raising and training measures must be structured and well-priced.

Employee

The behavior of this target group in everyday work has the strongest direct impact on information security within the institution. Here it must be taken into account that the level of knowledge within the target group can be very different. For example, software developers have different IT equipment and other responsibilities and skills than human resources personnel. The two groups therefore require different information security training content.

administrators

Administrators and support staff must have in-depth knowledge of the IT systems and applications they manage, so they can also identify and resolve security issues and prevent them.

personnel department

Employees in this department have a high need for information on data protection requirements.

External project staff

In many cases, external people who work closely with or even within the institution have access to internal information, applications or systems. This target group must also support and be committed to the institution's information security objectives and rules as well as internal staff. This requires appropriate training measures, eg. In the form of briefings with documented information. These measures should be carried out by the external institution in accordance with the requirements agreed with its own institution.

new hires

This target group has so far had no contact with the organization's information security.



