#M 3.26 Instruction of the staff in the safe handling of IT
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, IT Leader, HR Leader

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources, Supervisors

Many security problems arise from incorrect use or configuration of the IT. To prevent such problems, all employees and all external IT users must be instructed in the secure handling of the IT of the institution. For this, all employees must be sensitized and trained accordingly (see also M 3.5 Training on safety measures and M 2.198 Sensitization of information security staff).

All IT users must be made aware of their rights and responsibilities in IT use. They should be given specific guidelines for what they need to be aware of when dealing with IT. Such a guideline must describe which boundary conditions exist for the use of the IT systems under consideration and which security measures are to be taken. In doing so, users should be clearly and unequivocally informed of what they should under no circumstances do. These guidelines should be binding, understandable, current and available. In order to document the liability, it should be signed by the authority or management, or at least by the person responsible for IT. It is also advisable to formulate it briefly and comprehensibly so that it can be distributed, for example, as a poster, notepad, flyer, index card or similar. In addition, they should be available on the intranet.

User policies should in principle only contain rules that can be implemented, and be formulated as positively as possible. For example, a user policy might take place

Users are not allowed to install software on their own.

are as follows:

All IT systems are delivered in a standard configuration that has been adapted to your specific working conditions and offers you maximum security. In the case of problematic cases, we can guarantee you a quick solution by reinstalling the standard configuration. Please do not change the settings as far as possible. If you need additional hardware or software, please contact the user service.

Further examples of user guidelines can be found under the IT Baseline Protection Tools.

A user policy for general IT use should include at least the following:

* Note that no IT systems or IT components may be used without explicit permission
* Note that only those employees may change information on IT systems that are authorized to do so
* Handling of passwords (see M 2.11 Control of password usage)
* Prohibition of use of non-approved software (see M 2.9 Prohibition of use of non-approved hardware and software)
* Note that business IT systems may only be used for official purposes, or a precise description of possible exceptions to this rule, if they exist,
* Notes on the safekeeping and installation of IT systems and data carriers
* Protection against computer viruses and other malware
* Performing backups
* Use of Internet services


In addition to such policies, there must be clear statements as to which users may access which information, to whom such information may be disclosed, and what action should be taken in the event of a violation of this policy.

When a user leaves their work place, they should make sure that every piece of work equipment (documents, data carriers, etc.) is safely stored (see also M 2.37 The "tidy up" workplace). All IT systems should be protected by passwords against unauthorized access. For unattended IT systems, the computer must be locked at least.

The basic configuration of all IT systems should be limited as far as possible. In the standard configuration of workstations, only those services are required that are required by all users of a group (see also M 4.109 Software reinstallation on workstations). Further programs or functions may only be installed or activated if the users have been instructed in their handling and sensitized for any safety problems.

Each user code should be drawn up in cooperation with representatives of all groups involved, in particular staff representatives and data protection and IT security officers should be involved in good time. Whenever a user order is changed, care must be taken to ensure that those concerned are involved again in advance. The changed user regulations must be announced to all users.

The job description should include all tasks and obligations relevant to information security. This includes u. a. the commitment to in-house guidelines on information security (see also M 2.198 Raising awareness of information security staff).

If IT systems or services are used in a way that conflicts with the interests of the authority or the company, anyone who learns about it should inform his superiors.



