#M 3.50 Selection of staff
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources, Supervisors

Already when formulating the requirements, the required qualifications and abilities should be precisely described. Whether they actually exist with applicants should first be checked on the basis of the documents, then clarified in the interview.

Persons who are to perform safety-related tasks (for example, security officers, data protection officers, administrators, employees with access to financial or confidential information) must be trustworthy and reliable (see also M 3.33 Security Audit of employees).

Particular care must be taken to ensure that no conflicts of interest or dependencies arise that endanger the performance of the task. Conflicts of interest can occur, in particular, when an employee has various roles at the same time, which give him far-reaching rights or exclude himself. In addition, the duties of employees should not be affected by conflicts of interest outside the authorities or by the company, for example, through former employment or other obligations. In order to avoid conflicts of interest after a job change, non-competition and time limits can be agreed.

Insofar as the specialist qualifications in some areas are not yet sufficiently available, employees must have the opportunity to expand them. In order to maintain and update the required qualifications and skills, all staff should receive regular training and attention to the importance of information security (see also Module B 1.13 Information security awareness and training).

These points should also be taken into account when selecting employees for temporary jobs or service providers.



