#M 3.8 Avoidance of disturbances of the working environment
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, staff council / works council, head of personnel

Responsible for implementation: HR department, staff council / works council, superiors

A positive working atmosphere motivates employees on the one hand to comply with safety measures, on the other hand it reduces the risk of negligent or preventive actions that could disrupt the operation. Disturbances of the working climate can have a variety of internal and external causes, but often occur in serious internal changes. Examples of such changes include restructuring, reorganization, sale or merger of organizational units and outsourcing projects. These can have a negative effect on the working climate, as they usually cause the greatest number of different types (eg loss of competence, failure anxiety, job loss). These can be better dealt with if the working climate is as good as possible even before the changes have taken place.

From a safety perspective, attempts should therefore be made to achieve a positive working atmosphere and to maintain it permanently. The multiplicity of possibilities can not be mentioned here, therefore here only a selection of possible measures is mentioned, whose adequacy and feasibility would be examined in detail:

* Establishment of a social room,
* Avoiding overtime,
* Avoidance of large residual vacation entitlements,
* Compliance with break times,
* regulated distribution of tasks,
* steady workload,
* fair pay,
* existing representative system.


Communication problems in an organization almost inevitably lead to security problems. In extreme cases, this can lead to deliberate security breaches. If users find security measures only annoying because they have not been informed of their purpose, this can already lead to their being bypassed.

Also the transmission of bad news must be possible, without the messenger therefore has to fear sanctions. There should be a working atmosphere in which it is possible for each person concerned to report safety incidents within their own company or their own authority. Only in this way can existing security deficits be addressed effectively and openly.

Employees can not only be motivated by financial incentives. Above all, the recognition of their work performance is important. Employees should be included in decisions wherever possible.

At the very least, they should be informed about the reasons for the decisions taken so that they actively and motivatedly participate in their implementation.

Frequently z z B. Protesting the selection of certain hardware or software is that the users try to show that the imposed hardware or software is not as secure as the one they were testing.

The working atmosphere and the behavior of employees can be of particular importance in the case of major changes, such as outsourcing projects: dissatisfied or annoyed employees can cause such a project to fail (eg. Termination of know-how carriers in critical phases of change or deliberate ignoring of safety instructions), which can be life-threatening for the company as a result. In the case of major restructuring or outsourcing projects, the following aspects should be considered:

* Employees should be involved early on in decision-making processes such as the selection of an outsourcing service provider. In the further course of the project they should be involved in the design of possible takeover agreements.
* Employees should be fully informed about changes in a timely manner and have a point of contact for problems and questions. Indirect information through the media, e.g. For example, over newspapers, instead of direct by the company or authority management creates distrust, destroys the basis of trust and prepares speculation and rumors the floor.
* In the event of organizational changes, the employees concerned should be given future prospects. Often, outsourcing service providers rely on the highest possible proportion of employees in the outsourced area to move to them. Only in this way can a satisfactory service quality be guaranteed. Employees who are scared of the future or feel they are being treated unfairly lower their job quality or even leave the company prematurely.
* Demanding or burdensome activities that can not be avoided in the context of restructuring should be adequately acknowledged and acknowledged. The extra work required should be rewarded.




