#M 3.51 Appropriate concept for personnel deployment and qualification
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources, Supervisors

For each employee, the tasks to be performed at the workplace should be documented: everyone should know what he has to do. The tasks should be defined in such a way that there are no overlaps, so that there are no problems with responsibilities. The employees must know all contact persons relevant to their area of ??responsibility. This includes in particular all those who perform similar tasks or who support them if necessary. For example, employees should know who is responsible for IT support so that, on the one hand, problems can be remedied immediately after they occur, and on the other hand, no employees can be dropped on the wrong support staff (see G 5.42 Social Engineering). , In addition, suitable representatives must be named.

The roles that an employee should perform must be clearly defined. Based on this, all necessary authorizations have to be granted (see M 3.1 Regulated Incorporation / Training of New Employees and M 3.2 Commitment of Employees to Compliance with Relevant Laws, Rules and Regulations).

All employees must be sufficiently trained to perform their duties and sensitized to possible dangers and correct behavior. This includes in particular the careful handling of information and IT systems according to their protection requirements as well as the knowledge of the relevant security guidelines. For this purpose, an appropriate awareness-raising and training concept should be developed (see module B 1.13 Information security awareness and training).



