#M 3.23 Introduction to cryptographic basic concepts
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The use of crypto products can mean additional effort for the users or, depending on the complexity of the products used, may even require in-depth knowledge. Therefore, all employees who are to use cryptographic methods and products should be made aware of the benefits and necessity of the cryptographic procedures and should be introduced to cryptographic basic concepts. This, of course, applies especially to those who want to create a crypto-concept, select, install or maintain crypto products.

The following text is intended to provide an elementary understanding of the basic cryptographic mechanisms. In the following it will be explained by examples in which situation which cryptographic technique can be used.



## Examples 
* Confidentiality / Confidentiality: No unauthorized third party E (her name is Eve) should access the content of the message or file.
* Integrity: Unauthorized manipulation of the message or file (eg insertion, omission, replacement of parts) should be detected.
* Authenticity: proof of identity (authentication of communication partners): A communication party (eg person, organization, IT system) should be able to prove its identity to another without any doubt.Child proof (message authentication): A should prove B can say that a message came from her and was not changed.
* Non-repudiation: Here the focus is on third-party traceability compared to message authentication. Non-repudiation of origin: It should be impossible for A to deny the submission of a particular message to B at a later date. Non-repudiation of receipt: It should be impossible for B to subsequently contest the receipt of a message sent by A.




