#M 3.61 Introduction to Directory Service Basics
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer

More and more institutions are using decentralized, cross-border or even worldwide computer networks to exchange the required information within the scope of their business operations, their specialist tasks or procedures and to implement distributed applications. The data, but also the external and internal applications must be protected against misuse.

For the exchange of data within such networks, it is of great importance that a great deal of information about the different communication partners, users and resources in the network is made available to the users and applications that need them. It must be ensured that only authorized users and applications can access this information, such as certificates, properties, and so on. In addition, it must be ensured that the information can not be manipulated or compromised. Only then is it ensured that communication links are set up and data is exchanged with sufficient security only with trusted partners.

Above all, if a lot of similar information is to be available for different procedures, this data should be managed effectively and efficiently. If this data is frequently accessed but seldom changed, a directory service should be integrated into the network in order to organize the information in a uniform manner while offering standardized interfaces for its use.

In addition, directory services support Single Sign-On, which allows users to access additional network resources after just one authentication without further logon.

Today's directory services originate in the X.500 standard of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) on directory services. X.500 was also adopted as ISO 9594. From this standard, current directory services have essentially adopted its internal structure in terms of name and data structures.

A disadvantage of the X.500 standard, however, is the directory service's complex access protocol, the Directory Access Protocol (DAP), which is also based on a complete ISO / OSI protocol stack. As a viable alternative, the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) has been developed, which has simplified access to directory services and contributed to their popularity. LDAP only implements a reduced amount of functions and data types over DAP and builds on a TCP / IP stack.

LDAP has become the industry standard in the LDAPv3 version and is specified as the Internet standard in RFC 4511 (formerly RFC 2251). Virtually all directory services today offer an LDAP interface, although proprietary protocols or interfaces are also used alongside them.

Because of the protocol, directory service servers are sometimes referred to as LDAP servers in administrative terminology.

Directory services are organized like a hierarchical database. The hierarchical structure of the objects takes the form of a tree, with the individual nodes of the directory tree consisting of the container objects, which in turn can contain other objects. The so-called leaf objects (leaves) represent the end points of the directory tree. The objects (entries, entries) form the Directory Information Tree (DIT). Each object has a unique name, the so-called Distinguished Name (DN).

Example: cn = Max Mustermann, l = Bonn, ou = BSI, o = covenant, c = DE

Within a plane the objects can be defined by the Relative Distinguished Name (RDN), eg. cn = Max Mustermann.

The objects themselves contain properties (attributes). The attributes are finally assigned values, for example: mail: max.mustermann@bsi.bund.de.

Each entry in the Directory Information Tree (DIT) is assigned at least one object class (ObjectClass), such as eg. objectClass inetOrgPerson. There are object classes that can serve as containers for other entries, and those that are located as leaf objects at the ends of the branches in the tree structure of the DIT. The Directory Information Tree within the directory service structure is a limit to the influence of administrators and thus to the directory service itself.

In the object classes, attributes are defined that are available for corresponding entries. The assignment of the attributes to object classes controls which attributes are available for the entries. There are attributes that need to be given a value and others that can be left blank. For example, the mail attribute declared in the inetOrgPerson object class may be left blank.

There are dependencies between object classes. In order to be able to use the widespread object class inetOrgPerson, for example, the object class organizationalPerson must first be declared, which in turn needs the object class person and this object class top. The object class inetOrgPerson defined in RFC 2798 is one of the most frequently used classes for representing persons in their organizational environment in LDAP.

The definitions of the object classes are recorded in a so-called schema. A schema defines object classes with their mandatory or optional attributes. Schemas are stored in so-called schema files. For example, the object class inetOrgPerson is described with its attributes in the file inetorgperson.schema. Directory services already provide a lot of schema files with their installation packages. Nevertheless, there is the possibility to expand schemas or to develop their own schema if necessary.

Should changes be made to the definition of individual object classes, eg. by extending the associated attribute set, this is done via a change or extension of the schema. Thus, a schema change is to some extent the most sensitive operation ever that can be done on a directory tree. Such a change has effects on the entire tree, so that the previous concept of the tree must be re-thought. The administration of the directory service schema requires therefore a high competence in the directory service as well as a very high security awareness.

Even if the data of a directory service is stored in a database, directories have some properties that distinguish them from other databases, especially relational databases (see B 5.7 Databases):

* Directory services are organized in a hierarchical manner in which the objects are stored with their attributes as entries. The objects of a directory service simulate the real objects (eg users or computers) of a network. The relationships between objects are reflected in the tree structure of their entries.
* Directory services use a specific standardized structure, which can be extended if necessary. The structure is defined by the scheme used. A schema defines object classes with their mandatory or optional attributes. These attributes can be multivalued, that is, they can accept multiple values.
* Directory services provide a simple and fast way to easily structured search and read requests. To contact a directory service, network protocols are used. Most directory services support the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP), but often proprietary protocols and software interfaces are also used.
* Directory services provide a fine-grained security model. For example, access rights can be defined for an entry and then taken over for all underlying entries in the directory tree.
* Although directory services are databases, they do not support distributed transactions or rollback operations (reset). For the purpose of higher availability in a distributed environment, neither objects nor their attributes can be blocked for a change. At least temporal inconsistencies between database replicas are accepted.


Compared to hierarchical databases, as they are typically used for directory services, provide relational databases u. a. following features:

* The SQL query language makes complex operations possible, such as: For example aggregation for counting and join for linking.
* The data is in a normal form, there are no multivalued attributes.
* Relational databases are suitable for composite and concurrent writes due to locking mechanisms and transactions.


Directory services are predestined for short connections and simple queries, for example, for the existence of resources, values ??of attributes or reading whole objects.

Therefore, it follows from this comparison that directory services should not be used, for example, for personnel administration, even if many attributes of persons within an institution are provided by the directory service. These include z. B. the assignment of users to phone number, e-mail address, department, but also to login names, passwords or certificates. Other characteristics, such as salary level, bank account number, vacation days or working time agreements, are HR data that should not be part of a directory service.

Thus, individual data relevant for the directory service can also be maintained via other relational databases of an institution, such as the database for the administration of personal data in the above example. This may result in dependencies between the directory service database and other databases. In the context of data backup and emergency preparedness, it must therefore be noted from which other databases the directory service receives its entries.



