#M 3.72 Basic concepts of virtualization technology
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The term virtualit t and the associated adjective virtual have been used in computer technology for a very long time in very different application cases. In most scenarios, an object is given a virtual property if it does not physically exist but appears to exist. Thus, a virtual object can have real effects, ie, change reality or interact with reality. Therefore, the terms virtuality and reality are not to be understood as opposites. Virtualization is also understood to mean the process in which an object is transformed from a real into a virtual or provided in virtual form from the outset.

Especially in information technology, the virtualization of objects is used as technical substitution of these objects (substitution by something equivalent or equivalent). For example, if actual memory of an IT system is substituted (replaced equally) by virtual memory, it can be used as if it were the real one, even though it is represented as a file on the system's hard drive, for example. This file is in fact not real RAM, but its effect is the same as the RAM. This technique is used to use more memory than is actually available. By using virtual memory, however, performance disadvantages can arise. There are many other examples of virtualized resources such as VLANs, VPNs or virtual processors (Intel Hyperthreading).

In the past, as demonstrated by the example in the previous paragraph, virtualization has been used primarily to substitute scarce and expensive resources for those that are over-abundant or cheaper to obtain. In the meantime, however, the computer technology and in particular the performance of the computers has developed so far that the concept of virtualization is extended to other applications. The computer can be used with the help of appropriate virtualization software as a universal tool to virtualize many objects, especially the computer itself.



## Examples 
* the common encapsulation of operating system and application on a single computer system as well as
* The isolation of operating system and applications on these computers from each other on several computer systems




