#M 3.47 Implementation of information security planning games
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Safety training often feels that participants are dry. As a result, the desired learning effect is often not achieved. A good way to relax the learning material is plan or role play. Participants usually remember such games longer and more prominently than classical slide presentations. They also help to make the threats clearer and to highlight typical weaknesses as well as possible solutions in one's own working environment. They enable the participants to practice situations and then act more routinely in an emergency.

Simulation games can be made of practical examples, eg. For example, they can be compiled from the media themselves, or compiled from training service providers. The contents of the simulation games should be adapted to the own institution as far as possible. This allows employees to identify better with the solutions shown. Through the simulation z. For example, if security incidents can impair business critical processes, employees are well prepared in case of emergency.

As with training, targeting content appropriately is also very important here. The participants should be able to recognize the relevance of the role play and be able to benefit directly from it in their work environment.

Any effort to make employees aware of the importance of information security should preserve a positive and constructive mood. Constant fear of security incidents can on the one hand lead to the suppression of security problems and on the other hand to panic reactions.

The following examples show that simulation games can range from very easy-to-implement training exercises to complex simulation exercises. The task of the responsible planners is now to develop suitable scenarios according to the requirements of the different target groups.

Carrying employee ID cards

Through short role-playing games, employees can practice very well how to behave when they encounter people outside the organization within the institution. It can be seen how the employees can optimally react to this situation, for example by offering to accompany the outside to their better orientation to the discussion partner. Also, dealing with visitors who know the house rules, but refuse, can be trained, for example, if a visitor refuses to carry a passport, because he is personally acquainted with the managing director.

Social engineering attacks

In simulations, employees can learn how to behave in social engineering attacks. For this purpose, the selected target groups wiez. B.IT maintainers and various administrators groups in a joint simulation faced with allegedly harmless inquiries. Only through the interdisciplinary consideration of these requests, it becomes clear that there is an attack here. The aim of the simulation is to find out these connections through appropriate exercises in order to then be able to react in a defined way. In practice, this type of simulation can be carried out very well through workshops with moderation materials such as the pin board and moderation cards.

simulation exercises

Particularly important are simulations in which the treatment of security incidents up to emergencies is practiced. They should enable employees to perceive assigned roles and responsibilities within a scenario as reliably as possible under difficult conditions (tension, instructions, unclear or often changing circumstances, lack of resources, communication problems, etc.). The goal of simulations is primarily to train personal abilities using representative scenarios, which can then be used in as many incident situations as possible. Therefore, a simulation should be conducted by an experienced trainer, who will discuss and deepen their experiences in a review session with participants (see M 6.117 Tests and Emergency Exercises).



