#M 3.54 Training the administrators of the storage system
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

A storage system is the entity that bears many or even all intangible assets of the institution. In addition, the administration of storage systems with increasing functionality becomes more and more complex and requires up-to-date knowledge. Therefore, it is imperative that the storage system administrators are trained enough to be able to avoid problems from their own actions, to identify technical issues in a timely manner and to optimally use the functions and security features.

The training should provide sufficient knowledge of the procedures, tools and techniques required to set up and operate the components of the storage system. In addition to basic IT knowledge, this also applies to vendor-specific aspects of individual products that are used as components of the storage system. This means that administrators need to be trained on these products when using new products.

For training measures, a sufficient budget should already be planned for the procurement of IT components and a training plan for administrators should be created. The contents of a training should include the following:

* Storage System and Storage Network Basics Overview of Networks and Protocols Mass Storage System Design How a Storage Area Network Works (in the Case of a SAN Deployment) SAN Switching (in the case of a SAN Deployment) Storage of mass storage devices
* Setting up storage systems and storage networksComposition and cabling Setup and configuration of storage devices, SAN switches, and backup devices
* Operation of storage systems and storage networksManagement of devices, software toolsIntegration in network management systems (NMS) LoggingSetting, management and backup of the configuration.
* Troubleshooting Storage Systems and Storage Sources and CausesMessages and AnalysisTest Strategies for Troubleshooting
* Information security in storage systems and storage networksBased information security and relevant security aspectsVirenschutzAuthentisation, authorizationCrypto procedures and applicationsDanger source Default settingsPrevention, reaction and analysis Incident HandlingDisaster Recovery measures


Even if the tasks are distributed in a group of administrators so that each administrator has only one specific area of ??responsibility, it is essential that all administrators have a general basic knowledge. Based on this, the individual focal points can be purposefully expanded and maintained. For many products there is an extensive offer of manufacturers and specialized suppliers for this purpose on building on each other and individually deepening seminars. The supply of qualified training is also a criterion that should be taken into account when deciding on a particular manufacturer.



