#M 3.78 Correct appearance on the Internet
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

In the use of internet services, statements made by employees of an institution are typically perceived as a statement by the institution and not as a statement by a private person. Therefore, the employees must be informed about how they behave correctly when using the Internet and which behavior should be explicitly avoided.

Information should be published on the Internet only after careful consideration, whether via Internet portals, own websites, mailing lists or blogs. Even short-lived information such as discussion contributions in a forum, which were originally addressed only to a small group of readers, may remain accessible for a very long time. With searches, for example via search engines or social networks, information from various areas of life can be brought together in addition. In order to prevent the targeted analysis of information about a person or certain areas of an institution to lead to unpleasant surprises, Internet users should follow the following basic rules:

* Data Saving: Before any disclosure or publication of information on the Internet, users should ask how this information could be returned to their person or institution and whether they should be shared. Personal or business-relevant information should only be passed on sparingly. As a principle should be that nothing should be published, which could not appear under its own name in a magazine.
* Need-to-Know: Information should only be made available to those who really should know it. For example, closed forums or protected areas should be used for data transfer.
* Blogs, forums, mailing lists, and similar applications should be used so that private statements can not be mixed up with or misunderstood in the workplace.
* All unnecessary additional information should be removed from metadata of files (see M 4.64 Verifying the data to be transferred before transferring / removing residual information). Photo files can. B. contain more image information than can be seen on the published photograph.


Every user should behave adequately on the Internet, so heed the netiquette. Netiquette (the net etiquette) refers to eligibility rules and behavioral suggestions that, over time, have become entrenched in the use of the Internet and are intended to ensure that everyone uses the Internet efficiently and to their fullest satisfaction can. These include, for example, the following aspects:

* As in real life, the tone and content of the Internet should always be appropriate for the target group. In doing so, it should always be borne in mind for employees of institutions that they should only speak in such a way that this can not be detrimentally interpreted for them or for the institution. The tone should always remain factual. Comments should always be considered as to whether they could be printed in this form. They should never be arrogant, discriminatory or offensive or that way.
* Depending on the Internet application, there are other ways to design messages. In principle, information should always be passed on in such a way that it can be read and edited in the selected medium as simply as possible. These include correct sentence structure and spelling, upper and lower case and the usual courtesy formulas. The news should be reduced to what is strictly necessary.
* When passing on information, the respective statutory regulations must always be observed. Before data are transmitted by or via third parties (texts, photos, etc.), Z. B. copyright, the general personal right (right to own picture) or similar laws for the protection of personal and business data to consider.


The behavioral recommendations for the use of internet services should be published on the intranet or other appropriate form.



