#M 3.68 Training the administrators of a Samba server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

In order to be able to administrate the Samba service correctly and safely, a training of the responsible administrators is indispensable. Even small configuration errors can lead to security gaps. In view of the differences between the Unix and Windows file systems, the correct configuration and administration of access restrictions in particular requires a good knowledge of the available options and their limitations. Because of the strong interaction between Samba security mechanisms and the underlying operating system, Samba server administrators must be aware of the security mechanisms of the operating system. This also applies if the administrators of the Samba server are not responsible for the administration of the operating system at the same time.

In addition to the general operating system security, the following aspects should be the subject of the training:

* Methods of installing the Samba service (installation via the package management of the used distribution, compiling from the source code).
* Configuration options of the Samba service, syntax of the configuration files.
* User authentication mechanisms for the Samba service, areas of application, advantages and disadvantages of the individual mechanisms.
* How the protocols work in a Windows NT4 domain and Active Directory domain.
* Potential vulnerabilities of the protocols used in an NT4 domain and an Active Directory domain. For example, administrators must be told that the data transfer via the Server Message Block (SMB) protocol is always encrypted.
* Differences in file systems used on Windows and Unix and how Samba handles these differences.
* Interplay of access restrictions in the Samba configuration with file-level access permissions.
* Measures to ensure the availability of a Samba server.




