#M 3.35 Instruction of the users in the operation of the archive system
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Archive administrator, IT manager

Archiving is a particularly responsible task and places high demands on the operation. The employees provided for this purpose are to be specially advised and prepared for this responsibility. For this the users have to be trained accordingly.

Such training should include topics such as:

* Procedure for the conversion of analogue data: The correct procedure for the recording of the documents, the conversion into the electronic form as well as the electronic archiving are to be explained and practiced on the basis of practical examples.
* Legal framework for archiving: When archiving, legal requirements must be met (see M 2.245 Determination of the legal influencing factors for electronic archiving). These requirements and the consequences of non-compliance must be made clear to users.
* Protecting the confidentiality and integrity of documents: The correct course of action when dealing with confidential documents and when maintaining and checking the integrity of archived documents must be demonstrated. Possible consequences of incorrect operation should be noted.
* Special features regarding the use of WORM media: Special attention should be drawn to the peculiarities of storing data that can be written on once. This means that it should be noted that data once stored can no longer be deleted (possibly a new version) could be archived again). This can not only lead to capacity bottlenecks, but also to privacy or confidentiality issues, as data is only marked as delete, but not actually deleted.
* Organization-specific security guidelines and their application in electronic archiving: When designing the archive system, various security measures have usually been provided, which must be implemented by the individual users of the archive system. This can be z. These include, for example, the type of marking of the archive media or the handling of information classified as confidential or otherwise classified. All users must be made aware of these organization-specific security policies.


The training of the employees must be documented.



