#M 3.83 Analysis of security relevant personnel factors
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources, Supervisors

One of the most important pillars of information security in an institution is its staff. Experience shows that even the most complex technical safety precautions are worthless without the proper behavior of the employees. An awareness of what information security means for the institution and its business processes, and the proper treatment of employees with the information to be protected by the institution are essential for this.

The security measures selected for the institution should therefore always be based on the employees. Their knowledge and handling of information and IT should be included. Therefore, it makes sense to analyze the various factors that contribute to how employees behave from a security perspective. Building on this, it can then be examined where personal and organizational security can be improved, for example through awareness-raising and information security training.

The following aspects should be examined:



## Examples 
* What is the way of dealing with the business or the company with business-relevant information and risks in general? Is the institution more risk-oriented or risk-avoidant? Is information released more freely or restrictively?
* What are the requirements for accuracy and precision? Are minor errors tolerable, for example, in texts, because they have to go through several tuning processes anyway? Can an input error already lead to serious damage?
* What are the requirements for availability? Are there a lot of tight deadlines? Can processing times for inquiries and business processes be set flexibly? Are minor missed deadlines or changes generally acceptable or do they lead to harsh consequences?




