#M 3.18 Obligation of the user to unsubscribe after completion of the task
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: user, IT security officer, IT manager

If an IT system or an IT application is used by several users and if the individual users have different access rights to data or programs stored there, the required protection can only be achieved by means of an access control if each user agrees after completing the task IT system or the IT application logs off. If it is possible for a third party to continue to work on an IT system or in an IT application under the identity of another, then any sensible access control is impossible. Therefore, all users must be obliged to log out of the IT system or the IT application after completion of the task. For technical reasons (eg so that all open files are closed), regulations should be made for logging off IT systems and IT applications even if no access control has been implemented.

If it is foreseeable that only a brief interruption of the work is required, manual deactivation of the screen lock can be carried out instead of logging off (see also M 4.2 screen lock). In case of prolonged absence, the screen lock should be activated automatically.

Some IT systems and IT applications provide the ability to set a time period after which a user is automatically logged out of the system at inactivity. It should be considered whether this method is used as it can also lead to data loss. An automatic logoff can z. B. PC pools with heavy public traffic are used because a registered user can block the workstation with the help of the screen lock.

Depending on the workplace environment, it is important to consider what precautions should be taken for short-term absences of users. For example, automatic activation of the screen lock should be faster for multi-user systems than for those for a user, eg. already after 5 Minuten.



