#M 3.1 Regulated training / instruction of new employees
Responsible for initiation: Public Authority / Management, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources, Supervisors

Not only do new employees have to be trained in their new tasks, they also have to be informed about internal regulations, customs and procedures. Without proper training, they will not know their contacts on information security issues, they will not know what security measures to take, and what security policies the agency or company is following. This can lead to disruption and damage to the institution. Therefore, the regulated training of new employees is of corresponding importance. Experienced employees should be made aware of this so that they can support new employees and so that safety problems can be reduced to a minimum in advance. New employees should have an experienced colleague for questions.

The training should at least include the following points:

* All new employees should be instructed in the use of essential IT systems and applications for the workplace. In addition, all new employees should be sensitized and trained on all relevant safety measures (see also module B 1.13 Information security awareness and training). New employees should have enough time for familiarization.
* All contacts should be introduced, especially those on information security and data protection issues.
* The security goals of the agency or the company should be presented to the new employees. All in-house regulations and rules on information security must be explained. For all types of potential security incidents, the rules of conduct and reporting should be set out.


It is helpful to carry out the familiarization process with a check-list or a checklist showing the individual activities and the level of familiarization achieved.



