#M 3.76 Instruction of users in the use of groupware and e-mail
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

Users must be trained in the use of communication services and groupware applications such as e-mail in order to avoid operating errors and to ensure compliance with the organization's internal guidelines. In particular, with regard to possible dangers and safety measures to be observed, eg. For example, when sending or receiving e-mails. It should be noted that an abnormal behavior of the communication software should be reported.

Users must be informed that files whose content might cause an issue should not be sent, posted on information servers, or requested. In addition, users should be required to know that when using communications services

* the negligent or even preventive interruption of ongoing operations must be avoided under all circumstances. In particular, attempts to obtain access to network services, of whatever nature, without authorization, to change information that is available via the networks, to intervene in the individual work environment of a network user or unintentionally received information must be avoided to pass on computers and people.
* the omission of information that is irrelevant to the general public must be avoided. The burden on networks of untargeted and excessive information dissemination should be avoided.
* the proliferation of redundant information should be avoided.


In addition, users should be informed about the following:

* When an email is sent to multiple recipients, it is often added to the To or CC field. This has the advantage, among other things, that an e-mail must be sent only once and each recipient can see immediately who has been informed about the content. However, it often does not make sense for every recipient to be able to see the complete list of recipients. This is not only appealing to the recipients, but may also be undesirable for privacy reasons and it could also cause spam. For larger recipient lists, the E-mail addresses instead of under CC under BCC registered or distribution lists are used. BCC stands for Blind Carbon Copy, registered addressees will not be shown to the other recipients.
* Distribution lists must be regularly checked for correctness and timeliness, so that no e-mails are transmitted to wrong recipients due to incorrect or non-current distribution lists.
* Users should know all the regulations of the institution around communication, groupware and e-mail. This includes, for example, when and in what form signatures (sender details) of an e-mail should be added.
* A lot of malware is being transported via e-mail. Users should be aware of the dangers of malware and distribution channels. You should also know that despite all the security measures in an institution, incoming e-mails or their attachments may contain malicious software. Users should therefore not open any e-mails or attachments that appear to them in any way doubtful, so z. no unexpected attachments.


* In order to avoid overloading by e-mail, employees are to be instructed in potential misconduct. You should also be warned about participating in e-mail chain letters as well as subscribing to large mailing lists.


In most groupware systems, the information is transported unencrypted over open lines and can be stored on various intermediate computers until they finally reach their receiver. In this way, information can be easily manipulated. But even the sender of an e-mail usually has the opportunity to enter his sender address (From) as desired, so that one can only be sure of the back query or the use of digital signatures the authenticity of the sender. In cases of doubt, the authenticity of the sender should therefore be checked by questioning or, better still, by the use of encryption and / or digital signatures. Basically, users should not rely on the authenticity of the sender information when making an e-mail.

E-mail is expected to have fast response times. Therefore, the inbox should be checked several times a day. In the case of longer absence, a substitution rule should be taken, for example incoming e-mails can be forwarded to a representative (see also M 2.274 Representation rules for e-mail usage).

Since in many cases it can not be predicted which e-mail client will use an e-mail recipient and which software and operating systems will be used in transit, users should know that both in the transmission as well You may encounter problems with the presentation of messages and attachments to the recipient. This can occur, in particular, when using unusual character sets or file formats, or when using outdated e-mail software.

Users should also know that e-mails for various reasons do not reach the recipient. Especially for time-critical or important e-mails, the sender should not rely on an automatic receipt confirmation. Better should be an independent feedback, z. B. a short e-mail with self-written confirmation.



## Examples 
* Have users become aware of the hazards and safety measures involved in groupware usage?




