#M 3.10 Selection of a trusted administrator and representative
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager, HR manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, Head of Human Resources

Denit system or TC system administrators and their representatives must be able to place great trust in the operator. Depending on the system used, they have extensive and often all powers. Administrators and their representatives are able to access and, if necessary, modify all stored data and grant privileges in a way that would allow substantial misuse.

Administrators for IT systems and their representatives must be carefully selected. You must be regularly informed that the powers may be used only for the required administrative tasks.

Since the administrator plays a key role regarding the functionality of the hardware and software used, the continuation of his activities must be guaranteed even if he fails. For this purpose, the named representatives must have the current state of the system configuration as well as access to the passwords, keys and security tokens required for the administration.

If a company or a public authority has several administrators with comparable IT system knowledge, they can also represent each other if they still have spare capacity. In all areas in which only one administrator is mainly responsible for managing IT systems, two substitutes should be involved, as experience shows that the deputy is temporarily not available for administration tasks if the administrator is absent for a long time.

In order to ensure the functionality of IT operations, in particular in the event of pending changes in personnel or changes in the organizational structure, it must be checked whether the required administrative activities are also performed by the designated administrators and their representatives can.

In particular, in the case of imminent moves, administrative tasks at a further location can lead to a considerable increase in the workload of the administrator. Even in such cases, it must be ensured that the production plant at the previous location is not impaired until the time of the move.



