#M 3.9 Ergonomic workplace
Responsible for initiation: Staff Council / Works Council, Head of Building Services

Responsible for implementation: user, staff council / works council, superiors

The burdens caused by long-term activities in poorly equipped workplaces can not be underestimated, since they can lead to long-term health problems. However, these loads can be reduced by an ergonomic workplace. Improved ergonomics also means a more effective way of working. This not only brings health benefits to the worker, but also results in more efficient work and improved implementation of safety measures.

Therefore, every workplace should be ergonomically designed. For computer workstations, for example, the chair, table, screen and keyboard must be individually adjustable in order to enable the most error-free operation of the IT and promote. This includes, among other things, that the backrest, seat height and seat surface of the chair must be adjustable, but also that the work equipment can be arranged so that for the respective work task as small as possible Stress arises.

An appropriately equipped workplace also makes it easier to comply with safety measures. If there are lockable desks or cabinets, the data carriers, documentation, documents and accessories can be locked inside.

The IT systems used at the workplace, especially the screen, must also be ergonomically positioned. For example, the screen should always be placed at right angles to the window to avoid direct exposure to light. In addition, anIT systems should be able to work undisturbed. For example, users should not be able to constantly look over their shoulder. This is also useful to prevent unauthorized viewing of information.

Further information can be found in the recommendations of the professional associations or occupational safety experts.



