#M 3.21 Safety training of teleworkers
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, Supervisor

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, supervisor

Teleworkers work exclusively or temporarily outside the building of the employer or client. This means that teleworking has different security measures than work within the institution. It is therefore necessary to build a security concept for the teleworkers based on the cross-border security concept of the institution (see also M 2.117 Creation of a security concept for teleworking). In addition, security policies should be established and published for teleworkers. Teleworkers must be instructed in the appropriate security measures and, if necessary, trained in their handling using the Telework Safety Guidelines. In particular, the following points should be considered when instructing the teleworker:

* Official documents must be stored securely at the teleworkstation, eg. B. be locked away after processing in cabinets.
* To close windows and outward doors (balconies, terraces) when leaving the teleworking station.
* Structural and security changes to teleworking IT may only be made by the institution's administrators.
* The teleworking computer may only be connected to public communication networks via the connection provided for this purpose. Privately used TK and Internet access must be kept separate from the official ones.
* When exchanging data between data carriers between the IT systems of the institution and the workstation PC at the teleworkstation, only the data carriers procured by the institution may be used. Media should only be encrypted so that no sensitive data is disclosed in the event of loss. Service and private IT systems or data media should be kept separate in order to B. to prevent the spread of malicious software.
* Unauthorized access to telework IT is to be prevented by access locks, eg. For example, boot and screen locks. Passwords are generally kept secret, including those for access to the workstation and the communication computer.


In addition, teleworkers are to be trained in dealing with the teleworking computers so far that they can carry out simple error corrections (eg change printer cartridges) or solve simple problems on their own.



