#M 4.369 Safe operation of an answering machine
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, PBX manager, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: user, administrator

Answering machines can be connected to the internal telephone network in addition to the telephone and can record incoming calls or messages in spoken form if the person called is not available. Another possibility is to play only a message about the absence, but not to allow the leave of a message by the caller. Answering machines can either be connected as an external device (stand-alone) in addition to the telephone to the internal telephone network or are already included in the telephone (integrated answering machine) or in the telecommunications system. If VoIP is used, voicemail can be sent to the recipient by e-mail in many VoIP systems (voice mail).

From a technical point of view, answering machines can be divided into two classes: analogue or digital storage. For analog devices, the messages are recorded on audiocassettes (often mini- or micro-cassettes). Meanwhile, such devices are no longer manufactured. With digital answering machines, which are now often integrated directly in the telephone or in the telephone system, the messages are recorded on a memory module in the device or on a mass storage device such as a hard disk. On some older digital answering machines with memory modules, the stored information (greeting messages and messages) may be lost in the event of a power failure. Therefore, these existing (buffer) batteries should be replaced regularly.

In general, no sensitive information should be left on the answering machine. In the announcement text, care should be taken to ensure that the caller does not receive any information that can be exploited for social engineering (see G 5.42 Social Engineering). These include, for example, the current location or the (longer term) duration of absence of the called party. The announcement should point out that no confidential information should be left on the answering machine.

Phones with built-in answering machine often have not only the call recording and the listening to the received messages but also other features such as remote inquiry, call forwarding, room monitoring or remote control of connected electrical devices. These features can be remotely controlled on some phones during a call answered by the answering machine. As the remote access and remote control option poses a considerable hazard potential, it should as far as possible be deactivated and, in the case of use, protected by a security code (PIN, PIN). This should be at least three to four digits and freely selectable. All factory-set codes should be changed before commissioning. The security code is to be stored like a password (see M 2.22 Storing the password) and changed regularly.

Care should be taken to ensure that no strangers are present when entering the codes who could observe or hear them. Additional protection against unauthorized listening or misuse of other features is a blocking circuit that stops the answering machine after three failed attempts to break the connection. Better still are devices in which the remote inquiry functions are completely blocked after three futile attempts and can only be activated again on the device itself. Also blocking times, which are extended after each failed attempt, make sense. In addition to the remote inquiry initiated by the user, some devices are able to inform the user about newly received messages via a call to a previously specified phone number or by SMS to the mobile phone.

Regardless of how the received messages are listened to, the stored calls should be monitored regularly. Records that are no longer needed should be deleted regularly so that the answering machine's storage medium (digital memory or audio cassette) is not depleted, making it impossible to record the conversations or to overwrite old messages. For this reason, the maximum speaking time per call should also be limited, as an attacker could otherwise fill the limited memory of the answering machine with nonsensical information and thus prevent further messages. If erasing is not possible with analogue recording devices, the magnetic tape should be rewound regularly to the beginning so that the recording of new conversations overwrites stored old messages.

Every user who uses an answering machine in their area should familiarize themselves with the operation and thus get to know the possibilities and limits of the device. For this purpose, appropriate operating instructions or instructions for use should be provided.



