#M 4.158 Set up LDAP access to Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) is a protocol used to access data from a directory service. LDAP was originally developed as an alternative to Directory Access Protocol (DAP) defined in the X.500 Directory standard. The underlying data model and possible operations within the protocol were essentially adopted by the X.500 standard. The current version of the protocol, LDAP Version 3, has become the dominant standard for accessing directory services.

eDirectory has an LDAP interface. This allows z. B. the following usage scenarios:

* eDirectory is placed on the internet, eg. B. as a so-called eBusiness platform or simply as a certificate database. Users access it via the Internet using a suitable LDAP-enabled software client.


* eDirectory is used on an organization's intranet to manage user accounts or network resources. Then, in addition to direct user access via an LDAP client, it is also possible to access network applications. In addition to Novell's own protocols, these accesses can also be made via the LDAP interface.


In both cases, the LDAP access must be configured according to the previously defined security policy (see M .2.238 Defining a Security Policy for Novell eDirectory).



## Examples 
* For the LDAP group, the option Allow cleartext passwords is not set so that passwords are not transmitted in clear text?
* Are all eDirectory servers, which can be addressed via the Internet via LDAP, protected by a firewall?
* Is it ensured that proxy users can not set a password through their user account?




