#M 4.498 Safe use of single sign-on
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

A desirable goal for a central identity and entitlement management system is that IT users authenticate once and then consistently gain access to the IT systems and applications in the information network for which they have the appropriate privileges. Such a solution is called single sign-on (SSO). These make it easier for administrators to manage identities and permissions and make it easier for users to use the IT because they only need to log in once more. From a safety point of view, therefore, there is a lot of advantages for aSS, but also some risks and corresponding safety measures:

* In an identity theft, an attacker not only has access to one system, but many. Therefore, SSO systems should always be used with two-factor authentication.
* The security of the SSO system determines the security of the connected systems and applications. Therefore, the security mechanisms used for single-sign-on as well as the password properties (formation rules, complexity, validity period) must meet the cumulative requirements of the connected applications or systems.
* For attackers, authentication information at SSO is particularly interesting. Therefore, these may only be encrypted and stored.
* When the central SSO system fails, accessing associated IT systems or applications may become inaccessible. Therefore, an emergency concept is absolutely necessary here (see M 6.166 Emergency Preparedness for the Identity and Authorization Management System).
* MobileIT systems may be offline at times. Nevertheless, users want to be able to work on the go. It must be ensured that secure access is possible in such situations.
* If users can not log in to the SSO system, for example because they have forgotten their logon token or password, they can reuse it when appropriate replacements have been made.
* Frequently, in SSO systems, access rights are not granted or not sufficiently allocated according to the context, that is, depending on role, location, time or activity, so that users work with too extensive access authorizations for many actions.
* Users must consistently log out of SSO systems because SSOs depend on access security for the security of many systems. It is necessary to check how an automatic logoff can be done at inactivity, as systems can also be connected, where longer periods of inactivity can be normal.
* The possibility of a multiple login to the SSO system should be disabled. Likewise, an automatic blocking of users in case of multiple failed login amSSO system is recommended.


InSSO systems can integrate the widely used IT systems and applications without major adjustments; for non-standard solutions, other solutions must be found. Therefore, in practice, for reasons of compatibility and cost-effectiveness, so-called reduced-sign-on solutions with not completely institution-wide authorizations are used.

Users can have multiple roles with different authorization profiles at the same time, such as administration and employees. Therefore, it must be considered how to ensure that users do not perform tasks with different security requirements under a user ID with the highest privileges (role separation).

For different roles, users should also use different system roles, that is, work under separate user IDs, especially with different security requirements. For example, it can be prevented that too many authorizations can be misused by an attacker by means of a compromised user ID.

However, employees should not be assigned too many user IDs, as this is impractical, increasing the risk of circumvention attempts creating new security risks. Therefore, depending on the protection needs of the data or IT systems, it should be checked how many user IDs are needed.

Using the XML-Framework Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) or program constructs such as FastXPath-based location statements and namespace prefixing can improve the security of SSO systems against XML Signature Wrapping attacks.



