#M 4.451 Current web service standards
Responsible for initiation: Responsible for the individual applications, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Web services are software applications that are deployed over a network. They provide a variety of IT-based services for use by virtually any client.

Web services are playing an increasingly important role in the interaction of complex IT landscapes. Security aspects in the use of such services are of great relevance.

To ensure a smooth integration of web services into a service-oriented architecture (SOA), various standards have been developed that look at the different aspects of web services. In particular, the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards (OASIS) and the World Wide Web Consortium (WC3) offer a variety of complementary and interrelated standards on the subject.

Based on proven Internet transport protocols, security aspects are abstracted into standards in addition to technical and organizational topics in order to meet the complex requirements of business process modeling.

The most important safety-related standards are visualized in the following graphic and will be briefly presented in the next sections. Due to the complexity of the topic and the constant evolution of standards, this can only be a selection that does not claim to be complete.



## Examples 
* Client-Server: The responsibilities between server and client are clearly divided (separation of concerns). This is especially true for data management.
* Statelessness: The communication is stateless. Each REST request contains all the information the server needs to properly process the request. The server does not need to store client-related information from communications to handle future requests.
* Cacheability: Resources can be marked as cacheable by the server. This means that all stations in network communication right through to the client can buffer the server response and reuse it for interactions.
* Uniform interface: The principle of generalization known from software development is applied to the interface between client and server. This makes the standardization of addressing, communication, data structures and transactions mandatory for a REST-compliant web application.
* Layered: Introducing a layered web architecture further increases scalability and flexibility. Each component only knows its immediate communication partner and has no information about the further structure of the overall system. In addition, intermediate layers and proxies can encapsulate services, integrate legacy systems, implement security requirements and distribute tasks and loads.
* Code on Demand: The server is allowed to provide clients with software components that can be used to extend client-side functionality. This allows the client to perform server-independent activities based on the data transmitted.




