#M 4.337 Use of BitLocker Drive Encryption
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user, IT security officer, IT manager

Drive encryption BitLocker (BitLocker Drive Encryption, BDE) offers the encryption of complete drives. In addition, if the TPM (Trusted Platform Module) is available, the system status can be recorded and the hard disk can not be decrypted if the measured value is incorrect.

BitLocker is included on the server side as of Windows Server 2008 and on the client side as of Windows Vista (only in the operating system versions Enterprise and Ultimate). Under Windows 8 BitLocker is available in the versions Pro and Enterprise. As of Windows 7, BitLocker To Go has also been added, which encodes external portable data carriers, so that encrypted data can also be accessed from another Windows system.

The primary security objective of BitLocker is the confidentiality of the data when the system is turned off. During Windows startup, BitLocker releases the keys for the encrypted hard disk partitions and keeps them active for the entire time the client is on. BitLocker therefore offers no protection of confidentiality during operation.

BDE can be used to protect the confidentiality of the data of a Windows client. This is especially true for mobile clients exposed to the risk of loss and theft, and their hardware does not offer comparable drive encryption and authentication. The need for protection with regard to the confidentiality and availability of the cryptographic key material must be at least as high as the protection requirements of the encrypted data itself. For the use of BitLocker on several systems, key management must therefore be planned in advance can be realized with BitLocker for example by means of Active Directory.

For the use of BitLocker on several systems also B 1.7 crypto-concept should be applied.



## Examples 
* A partition for the operating system (usually drive C :). This must be formatted with the NTFS file system. BitLocker completely encrypts the operating system partition except for the boot sector and an area with BitLocker metadata.
* A partition that must be unencrypted for Windows to start. The boot partition (system partition) must be formatted with the NTFS file system. As of Windows 7, it is created by default during installation. The boot partition must be at least 1.5 GB in Vista, at least 100  MB in Windows 7 and Server 2008. For computers booting from the UEFI system, at least a 350  MB FAT32 partition for the system drive and an NTFS partition for the operating system drive are required.




