#M 4.5 Logging on PBX systems
Responsible for initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Security Officer, TK-Anlagenverantwortlicher

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

PBXs usually provide logging capabilities. For example, it is possible to log who is using services such as telephone, fax or data transmission and who is communicating with whom. This information can be collected, processed and stored. Often the data is used for billing and verification purposes. The logged information contains, among other things, entries about:

* Time and date of a call or a connection,
* Source and destination number and the
* Call duration.


The data can be internally evaluated with the integrated connection data acquisition or transferred to corresponding external systems.

Since it is confidential data, the information must be protected on all systems and in addition to the transmission. Appropriate precautions must be taken to protect confidentiality and integrity. For example, the information could be transmitted via a dedicated network connection or encrypted over the LAN. In addition, it must be ensured that only authorized persons can access the secured data. It must be documented which persons in which roles have access to the connection data.

In addition, all system-technical interventions that contain program changes as well as evaluation runs, data transfers and data accesses should be logged.



## Examples 
* Is there a regulation for the administration and maintenance of IT systems?




