#M 4.320 Secure configuration of a VPN
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

All VPN components must be configured carefully, as improper configuration of VPN components may result in loss of network availability or in parts. The loss of confidentiality of information or data integrity is also conceivable. Regardless of whether VPN components are dedicated hardware (appliances) or software-based systems, the correct configuration of the components involved plays a key role. Since a VPN consists of several components and their configuration, this results in an increased complexity of the overall configuration. Modifying a configuration parameter on a component may, in conjunction with the other components, result in security gaps, malfunctions, and / or failures.

Since the configuration of a VPN system is usually subject to changes (eg personnel changes, new usage scenarios, system extensions), it can not be assumed that there is exactly one secure (and static) configuration, once set and never changed again. Rather, the configuration is usually changed continuously. It is up to the administrators responsible for the VPN to define only secure versions of the system configuration and to move the system from one secure configuration to the next secure configuration. All changes and the respective current settings must be comprehensibly documented.



## Examples 
* Have the basic settings of all VPN components been checked and adapted in accordance with the requirements of the security policy?
* Have the standard passwords of all VPN components been replaced by their own, sufficiently complex passwords?
* Are the security mechanisms offered by the VPN server, which make sense in the present deployment scenario, also activated and used?
* Is the correctness of the security settings for the VPN server regularly checked?
* Is it ensured that VPN servers and VPN clients are consistently configured?
* Is it technically or organisationally ensured that user passwords for VPN access are not stored?
* Are the routing settings of the network switches used for the VPN restrictive?
* Are all mobile VPN clients configured so that all traffic is only transported over the VPN connection?
* Are any test attachments and accounts on the VPN components removed?
* If remote administration is required for the administration: Is it ensured that the username and password are not transmitted in clear text?
* If the login message can be changed: Is the login message defined so that the model and version number of the device as well as the version of the operating system are not displayed?
* Are all unused interfaces of the VPN components disabled?
* Is logging enabled and properly configured in the VPN?
* Is the VPN system documented in such a way that even expert third parties can rebuild the system if necessary?
* Are all changes to the VPN configuration approved, verified and documented?




