#M 4.301 Restricting access to printers, copiers and multifunction devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

To make attacks on printers, copiers, and MFPs more difficult, restrict access to these devices. Here are some aspects that should be considered for the safe operation of printers and copiers:

* Restriction on Required Access Rights If possible, only as few administrators as necessary should be given full access. Only the access rights required for the task should be assigned (see M 2.8 Assignment of access rights).
* Securing administration access: Administrative areas and configuration should only be accessed by authorized persons. Access should only be possible after an authentication, for example by entering a password or a PIN. If printers, copiers or multifunction devices are administered via a network, it must be ensured that the administrators must also authenticate themselves for this. If no authentication is supported on the system side, appropriate substitute measures must be taken.
* Securing the administration with remote access: All administration access should take place only via an encrypted channel, so that no passwords or other information requiring protection can be heard. For example, for some types of devices, the transmission of configuration data over HTTPS or SNMPv3 can be encrypted. In this case, unsolicited communication should be prevented, for example by deactivating the HTTP interface for the configuration.
* Elimination of unnecessary functions: Printers, copiers and multifunction devices generally also offer more functions than are required in normal operation. This can result in unnecessary risks. Therefore, all unneeded features should be disabled or their use limited as far as possible.
* Packet Filter: Some printers have packet filters built in to filter connections based on IP addresses or port numbers. All ports that are not required for printing and configuring the printer should be blocked as much as possible. If the device supports encrypted communication, the unsealed communication with the device should be prevented as far as possible, for example via the corresponding port numbers. If print servers are used, care must be taken to ensure that Only from these servers a connection to the printers may be established. This makes it difficult to connect unauthorized IT systems to the printers. However, an exception are systems from which printers are to be configured. These systems must of course also be able to access the printer. Packet filters are generally as restrictive as possible. This also applies to the connection setup from the network printers to other IT systems. For example, the packet filters should be configured so that network printers can not connect to an IT system outside the LAN. This complicates the unwanted exchange of data with external IT systems, for example with computers on the Internet. Regardless of local packet filters, communication between the printers and external networks must be blocked at the central security gateway.
* Network segmentation: It is often advisable to combine all printers, copiers and multifunctional devices in a logical network. This facilitates the configuration and administration in many cases. If this is consistently implemented, the communication between the printers and other network segments can be specifically controlled on the responsible routers and gateways (both receiving and sending IP packets).




