#M 4.20 Restrictive attribute assignment for Unix user files and directories
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

The measures mentioned here apply to files and directories of a user (including mail files).

Users should set the attributes of their files and directories so that other users can not access them. If other users are to be allowed access, appropriate user groups should be set up. For user-specific configuration files such as .profile, .exrc, .login, .cshrc, only the respective owner should have rights.

On Unix systems, various programs have user-specific configuration files, such as .exrc, .emacs or .mailrc, which are automatically executed when the program is called and set variables and options for the user. So that no Trojan horses can be installed in these, only the respective owner should have access rights. The file .exrc is read before the ex or vi editors are started. If a file with the same name is in the current directory, it will be evaluated on some Unix versions. All deployed Unix versions must then be checked, as this also allows operating system commands to be executed with every editor call.

The s bit should only be set if absolutely necessary. For shell scripts, the s-bit should not be set. The s-bit should only be set after the involvement of the administrator, the necessity for this is to be justified and documented.



## Examples 
* Do users know that they should set the attributes of files and directories to prevent third-party access by other users?
* Do user-specific configuration files (for example .profile, .exrc) have only the respective owner rights?
* Are the user-specific configuration files set (umask) so that the file attributes for newly created files only give the producer (and possibly the group) access rights?
* Is the rights or attributes assigned to user files and directories checked regularly?




