#M 4.52 Device protection under NT-based Windows systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Typically, Windows operating systems allow all programs to access floppy disks, CD / DVD-ROMs / RWs, and USB interfaces. It is recommended that you restrict this access to the currently interactively logged in user by exclusively associating the devices with this user when logging in.

The following describes how to restrict access to floppy and CD-ROM drives. Access to other drives for removable media should be restricted in a similar way. Since Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008, access to removable media can be controlled in detail through the use of Group Policy. It can now be determined in principle which types of removable media may be accessed, and if, for example, only read access is permitted. Depending on the environment and the systems being configured, this can be configured either in the user or computer context. The path to the configurations within the security settings is:

Computer Configuration [User Configuration] | Administrative Templates | System | Removable Storage Access

In addition, access to the USB interfaces can now be configured more precisely via so-called device identification strings and device setup classes. This allows a targeted configuration, such as to allow only USB hard drives without having to completely disable the USB interface. As of Windows 2000 / Server 2003, the configuration is made via the local security settings or via a group policy. The relevant parameters are under Computer Configuration | Windows Settings | Security Settings | Local Policies | Security options to find and read on Windows 2000:

Note: Since the devices are released again for general access when logging out, users are to be informed that data media are to be removed from the devices before logging off.

If floppy disk drives are to be completely switched off, this can also be done by assigning the Startup Type Disabled to the device floppy in the Computer Management / Device Manager as of Windows 2000 / Server 2003. This will not load the necessary driver program. After the next boot, the floppy disk drive is no longer available, and it can only be reused by an administrator by assigning the system startup type.

In addition, drives can typically be disabled by appropriate configurations within the computer BIOS.

Furthermore, Windows allows all users access to tape drives so that each user can read and write the contents of each tape. Normally, this does not cause any problems, as only one user is logged in interactively at a given time. However, if it runs a program that still accesses the tape drive after logging off, this program may be able to access a tape that the next user is logging on. For this reason, computers that are not in a controlled environment and that are handling sensitive data should be restarted before using the tape drive.

Note: The use of self-loading tape devices, which can load multiple belts from a reservoir, may only be permitted under very precisely controlled conditions. As a rule, such devices should only be installed on a server for backup purposes. The interactive access of normal users to this server is not permitted (see also M 6.32 Regular backup).

Further recommendations for the suitable handling of drives for removable media can be found in M 4.4. Suitable handling of drives for removable media and external data storage.



