#M 4.3 Use of virus protection programs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

To protect against malicious programs, different principles of action can be used. Programs that search IT systems for all known malicious programs have proven to be an effective means of malicious program prevention in the past. Therefore, according to the requirements described in M .2.157 Selection of a suitable virus protection program, virus protection programs should be used.

For mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets or PDAs, it is also necessary to implement M 4.466 use of virus protection programs on smartphones, tablets and PDAs.



## Examples 
* Are virus protection programs installed on all IT systems that are designed according to the security concept?
* Is it ensured that both the scan program and signatures are always up to date?
* Are users familiar with the scanning program, especially with the option of on-demand scanning?
* Is the central e-mail gateway secured by a virus protection program?
* Is sufficient protection against malicious programs ensured for the Internet services used?
* Is a regular examination of the entire database for malicious programs carried out?
* If a malicious program is found: Is it checked whether the detected malicious program has already collected confidential data, disabled protection functions or downloaded code from the Internet before it was detected?
* Is a search for malicious programs carried out during data exchange and data transmission?
* Is encrypted data also protected against malware?
* Is it ensured that users can not make any security-relevant changes to the settings of the virus protection programs?




