#M 4.417 Patch management with WSUS as of Windows Server 2008
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) is a service that obtains patches, updates, and service packs provided by Microsoft over the Internet and provides them to other systems in the domain. The bundled download not only relieves the network connection of the institution, but also enables the patch management for Microsoft operating systems to be automated as needed. This makes the timely distribution of important security patches much easier. As new software vulnerabilities become known, patch management is one of the most important technical security measures (see also M 2.273 Timely patching of security-relevant patches and updates). All Windows systems in the information network should therefore be connected to a corresponding update service.

While WSUS was only available as an add-on for Windows Server 2003 and 2008, it is included as a server role as of Windows Server 2008 R2. WSUS presupposes the presence of an Internet Information Server (server role Web server) on the server. In addition, there must be enough disk space for caching updates and a management information database. If no suitable MS-SQL server is available, the database can also be an instance of the Windows Internal Database on the server system. For the evaluation and monitoring of WSUS activities, the Report Viewer Redistributable package must also be installed.

In more complex information networks it is possible to operate several WSUS servers in parallel or in series, for example to supply different locations. Each WSUS server downloads relevant updates from its source (either from Microsoft or another upstream WSUS server) at definable intervals. The WSUS server, which is at the very top of the hierarchy, requires a connection to the Internet, which can, however, also be realized via a WWW proxy with or without authentication.

Every update must be released after the download for the installation. This can either be done manually by an administrator or defined by a rule. Rules should be defined differently for so-called WSUS computer groups, so that, for example, critical security updates are automatically installed on clients, whereas server systems with critical applications require a manual administrator release. For each defined group, a balance must be made between the speedy effectiveness of automatically deployed security patches and the threat to system stability caused by missing tests.

The other systems in the domain are configured through Group Policy to access the WSUS server. Not only can the systems be made aware of the responsible WSUS server, but further configuration settings such as the intervals for checking for updates can be made. The systems configured in this way then regularly ask their WSUS server whether relevant updates are available for installation (pull mechanism). The WSUS server determines from the request the Windows operating system existing on the respective system and identifies the available updates and their respective approval status.

WSUS is configured through a management console that does not need to be running on the WSUS server itself, it can also be invoked from an administration PC. In any case, access to the administrative console of the WSUS server should be limited to a small group of authorized administrators.

With the report viewer redistributable package, various reports on the patch status of the connected systems are available in the administration console under Reports. Here, among other things, it can be determined when the individual systems were last updated via the WSUS server and which updates and patches have already been recorded. Particularly in the case of particularly critical weak points, the rolling out of the corresponding patches can be tracked and tracked.



