#M 4.258 Secure configuration of the SAP ABAP stack
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The ABAP stack is the traditional execution environment of an SAP system. This applies in particular to the system versions, which are generally referred to by the term SAP R / 3, because the R / 3 components and modules are executed in the ABAP stack.

The initial configuration of the ABAP stack is complex and involves many individual steps. The effort increases if, in addition to the configuration of the pure SAP basis, applications and modules must be configured, as is necessary in R / 3 Systems. Here all relevant authority or company processes must be simulated by configuration (customizing) or adjustments in the ABAP code.

In the following, the most important steps from the security point of view are shown, which are to be carried out during the initial configuration of the ABAP stack. The presentation is limited to the configuration of the SAP Basis and does not cover modules or applications.



## Examples 
* Activate or deactivate HTTP services if they are not required for later use (transaction: SICF); see also M 5.127 Hedging of the SAP Internet Connection Framework (ICF).
* Assign authorizations for IDOC interface (transaction: PFCG), see also M 5.128 Securing the SAP ALE (IDoc / BAPI) Interface.
* Assign authorizations for RFC interfaces (transaction PFCG), see also M 2.342 Planning for SAP authorizations and M 5.126 Securing the SAP RFC interface.
* Set IDOC administration (transaction: OYEA), see also M 5.128 Securing the SAP ALE (IDoc / BAPI) interface.
* Content Server Administration (transaction: CSADMIN), see also M 5.129 Secure Configuration of the HTTP-based Services of SAP Systems.
* Configure profile parameters for the Internet Connection Manager (ICM) (transaction SMICM, Jump, Parameter)
* Define proxy configuration (transaction SM30 with THTTP)
* All activities under the keyword System Administration must be carried out.




