#M 4.240 Set up a test environment for a server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

For servers with high security requirements, a test environment should be set up in which configuration changes, updates, and patches can be pre-tested prior to importing to the production system. This applies to security patches and updates as well as normal updates issued by the manufacturer.

The test environment must be such that it allows a functionally equivalent installation of hardware and software. This does not necessarily mean that a second, identically configured system has to be procured for an expensive server computer. For testing configuration changes, updates and patches of application programs and server software, a technically much more economical system is usually sufficient.

However, it should also be possible to test new device drivers before importing. Therefore, it may be advantageous to use different test systems for different types of tests, such as a system-near-program testing system or OS patches system, and another for testing the server software itself. In such a case, however, it is important to be aware that in this way certain types of interactions between operating system environment and server software can not be covered. In the case of special demands on the security and reliability of a server, it may therefore be necessary to have a second, identically configured system as the test environment.

For several typical and more frequently recurring test cases, checklists should be created that can be executed during testing and that, in addition to the pure documentation of the test, often also contribute to increasing the efficiency and avoiding errors k can.

All tests should be documented in such a way that they can be reconstructed at a later date.



