#M 4.339 Prevent unauthorized use of removable media on Windows clients as of Windows Vista
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Under Windows, all removable data carriers (for example: CD, DVD, USB stick, SD card, etc.) can be automatically recognized and processed. As a result, programs stored on the disk can be automatically run on the Windows system. The automatic removable media detection should therefore be permanently suppressed.

Windows Vista-based clients provide mechanisms to control access to removable media. Examples of removable media are memory cards, USB sticks, mobile hard disks, digital cameras, floppy disks, CDs or DVDs. They serve for the mobile storage of data and the data exchange between IT systems. Data from a Windows Vista client system can be read from a removable medium and stored on a removable medium. Applications can be started from removable media. The use of removable media also includes the installation or updating of necessary drivers. Since Windows Vista, specifications for the installation and use of removable media can be configured via Group Policy.



## Examples 
* Disabling the AutoRun Removable Media feature Associate GPO: Default AutoAudio behavior under Computer Configuration Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows Components | Guidelines for AutoPlay
* Deactivating the AutoPlay feature for CD and removable media containers Related Group Policy Object: Disable AutoPlay under Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows Components | Guidelines for AutoPlay
* Restricting the use of removable media to local users Related GPOs: Restrict access to CD drives to locally logged on users under Computer Configuration | Windows Settings | Security Settings | Local Policies / Security Options | Devices All removable media: Deny all direct access in remote sessions under Policy Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | System | Removable Storage Access




