#M 4.446 Introduction to cloud management
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The following properties characterize a cloud service:

* The provisioning of cloud resources (eg, computing power, memory, networks, storage networks) runs automatically with little or no interaction with the cloud service provider (via so-called self-service portals).
* The cloud services are available over standard interfaces (such as B.HTTP) over the network and can be used by different clients.
* The resources of the cloud service provider are in a pool, which is shared by many cloud users (multi-client capability).
* The cloud services can be provided quickly and flexibly. Deployment is highly automated.
* The use of resources can be measured and monitored and the evaluation made available to cloud users.




## Examples 
* In a private cloud, the cloud infrastructure is operated only for one institution. It can be organized and run by the institution itself or a third party, and can be located in the data center of one's own institution or another institution.
* A public cloud is used when cloud services can be used by the general public or a large group, such as a whole industry, and the services are provided by a vendor.
* In a community cloud, the infrastructure is shared by multiple institutions that share similar interests. Such a cloud can be operated by one of these institutions or a third party.
* If multiple cloud infrastructures that are self-contained in their own right are shared via standardized interfaces, this is called hybrid cloud.




