#M 4.260 Authorization Management for SAP Systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The security of the business data processed in an SAP system is very much determined by the set permissions for users and administrators. These determine which functions (also called transactions in SAP jargon) are called by a specific user and thus which data can be viewed or changed. Therefore, the configured permissions and their management are a very important part of system security, especially against the background of possible fraud by internal staff.

The SAP authorization system is very flexible, but also complex in configuration. In contrast to operating systems in which authorizations are assigned directly to objects (eg files), SAP systems work according to the ID card principle: When accessing functions, a check is made as to whether the user has authorizations of a particular type. If this is the case, it is checked whether the entered values ??correspond to the requirements that are necessary for executing the called function. The verified authorization types and values ??are determined by the programmer of the function and can also take into account the data that was passed to the function during the current call. In addition, the programmer finally decides on a function whether or not he implements an actually required authorization check.

The following recommendations should be considered when managing permissions. The list should be adapted and extended to local needs and requirements.



## Examples 
* A user administrator should be provided. This should be able to create, change and assign user IDs to roles. The creation or modification of roles or profiles must not be allowed to the administrator. SAP offers the template SAP_ADM_US for this purpose.
* A role administrator should be foreseen who can create and change roles but who can not create or change users or profiles. SAP offers the template SAP_ADM_AU.
* There should be a profile administrator. The latter may generate profiles for existing roles that do not contain any critical system authorizations (such as S_USER *), as these authorize user and role administration. SAP offers the template SAP_ADM_PR.
* These administrators are assigned to the group SUPER.
* An administrator administrator should be defined. This manages the user, role, and profile administrators. The administrator administrator should be assigned to the profile S_A.SYSTEM, which is needed to manage users in the SUPER group. The administrator administrator should only be used in the dual control. For example, it can be locked by the user administrator and unlocked as needed for the duration of the usage.




