#M 4.299 Authentication for printers, copiers and multifunction devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In everyday office life, it is often easy to see printouts of confidential documents directly at the printer, as they have not yet been picked up. Therefore, measures must be taken to make accessing foreign documents more difficult.

In general, only authorized persons should have access to the printed or copied documents. The circle of authorized persons should be kept as small as possible.

If access to a network printer can not be restricted, consideration should be given to using devices that provide an authentication function for users. If this function is activated, the document will not be printed until the user who sent the corresponding print job has identified himself and authenticated on the device. In practice, smart cards or PINs are often used for authentication. Depending on the type of device, PINs can be defined user-specific or document-specific. In the latter variant, a PIN is only set when the print job is sent. Only after this PIN has been entered on the device will the document associated with the PIN be printed out. Print jobs that have been sent but not picked up must be deleted regularly. As far as possible, the printers should be configured in such a way that if you enter the wrong PIN a few times, the print job will automatically be deleted.

Another gain in security can be achieved if the document to be printed is encrypted by the workstation PC, transferred to the printer and cached encrypted. Only after successful authentication directly at the printer will the document be decrypted and printed out.

There are also copiers that offer a similar authentication function, usually as an optional extension. Only after a chip card has been read in or a PIN has been entered can the users copy it. Although these authentication functions are mainly offered for cost accounting, these extensions also make it difficult to create copies by unknown persons.

If network-sensitive printers or copiers frequently require the printing or copying of highly confidential documents, consideration should be given to using devices with authentication options.



