#M 4.218 Notes about character set conversion on z / OS systems
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, application developer

The z / OS system typically uses the Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code (EBCDIC) character set. This applies both to the Multiple Virtual Storage (MVS) files and to the Hierarchical File System (HFS) files. Exceptions are only possible in the zFS file system. Windows and Unix systems typically use the American Standard Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) character set. When communicating between the different systems, the following rules must be observed:

* If text files are to be transferred, conversion tables must be used that perform a character set conversion. These tables are included in the z / OS operating system. However, it is important to ensure that the correct table is used.
* When transferring binary data, you must ensure that the conversion is switched off, otherwise the data will be unusable afterwards.
* When transferring data from Unix or Windows systems to a Hierarchical File System (HFS) of the z / OS system - and vice versa - using File Transfer Protocol (FTP), care must be taken to ensure that the correct conversion option is enabled during transfer is.
* Especially when transferring program source code, make sure that all characters (and especially some special characters) are translated correctly, so that unrecognized program errors are caused by the conversion. For example, in some cases, incorrect characters in constant definitions do not cause a compiler error, but may not be noticeable much later on execution.




