#M 4.402 Access control in web applications
Responsible for initiation: Responsible for the individual applications, Head of Department

Responsible for implementation: Developer, Administrator

The authorization component of a web application must ensure that users can only perform actions for which they have sufficient privileges. The assignment of rights can be based on user roles.

The authorization component should consider all managed resources of a web application. In addition count. B.

* URLs
* files
* Object references,
* Geschftsfunktionen,
* Application Data,
* Configuration data and
* Log data.


An access control should be implemented at all levels of a web application (eg through the web application, the application server, the web server and the operating system) as far as possible. As a result, in addition to Web-site level access protection, M 4.94 Web server file protection and M 5.168 Secure backend connectivity to web applications and web services should be taken into account for data protection on the web server and in background systems become.

The following points should be considered for secure access control at the web application level:



## Examples 
* Access permissions in the file system must be restrictive, so that access is only available to authorized users and services.
* File names should be made up of random values ??(such as a Globally Unique Identifier (GUID)), so they can not be easily guessed.
* Once the data is no longer needed, it should be deleted promptly.
* It is recommended to save the files in a directory that can not be reached via the web server (eg outside the root directory of the web server).
* Access to the files should be possible only through those web application interfaces that implement sufficient security mechanisms for access control and logging.




