#M 4.409 Procurement of Windows Server 2008
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Procurement

For Windows Server 2008, the exact planning of the intended use is necessary before the hardware as well as before the software procurement. With the introduction of Windows Server 2008 R2, the support for the 32-bit processor architecture has been discontinued. In addition to the necessary planning for the hardware to be used, the applications to be installed must also be checked for 64-bit compatibility.

There are also seven editions of Windows Server 2008 R2. The three most commonly used systems Standard, Enterprise and Datacenter were up to and including Windows Server 2008 still distinguished in versions with and without Hyper-V. Since Windows Server 2008 R2, this distinction is no longer made by Microsoft. The installation of the Hyper-V is done by the respective selection of the role and is for example not available on the editions Itanium, Web or Foundation.

Therefore, prior to obtaining the respective software license of the server, the desired application of the system must be specified. This is the only way to avoid unnecessary costs when purchasing Windows Server 2008 Edition.

This also applies to the number of CPUs required and the amount of RAM (RAM). Here, too, there are considerable differences between the individual editions: For example, instead of the 64 CPUs of the Datacenter Edition, the standard edition can only use 4 CPUs.

In addition to the restrictions on the usable hardware, the respective editions have considerable differences in the possible use of roles. For example, the Web server edition requires not only the installation of the IIS but also a DNS server, other roles are not available. Microsoft provides detailed overviews for choosing the required edition, such as tables of editions with their supported server roles. These documents should always be considered before purchasing the respective edition.

Further details on the installable server roles can be found in M 4.418 Planning the use of Windows Server 2008.

When procuring from a volume license agreement, the necessary infrastructure for activating the systems must also be taken into account (see M 4.336 Activation of Windows systems from Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement).



