#M 4.9 Use of the security mechanisms of X-Window
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Release 5 of the X Window software offers few measures to increase the security of the transfer of data between the X server and the X client, allowing the use of X Window software can only be recommended in a safe environment.

* Computer-specific access control: On every X server there is a list of approved computers that can be changed with the xhost command. In any case, it must be limited to the computers that need access to the X server. Under no circumstances should a global access with xhost + be possible. This can be achieved by explicitly entering computers in the xhost table. In addition, it should be noted that each user has unrestricted access to the X server on one of the authorized computers. This type of access control can therefore only be recommended if, for compelling reasons, none of the following mechanisms can be used.


* User-specific access control: The X-Server process can be configured so that a key is generated during a login (eg with the help of xdm), which is used for authentication during a transfer between client and server. This key (MAGIC COOKIE) is stored in the user's home directory in the .Xauthority file and can be transferred to the X client using the xauth command. However, while the MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE mechanism has to be considered just a kind of password that can be intercepted during its transmission, a mechanism offered in conjunction with NIS and using a DES encryption provides more security and should therefore be preferred.


* Access control via Secure Shell: The communication between X-Client and X-Server can also be made via a secure channel of an ssh connection (see also M 5.64 Secure Shell). In this case, both a computer-based and a user-based access control takes place. The authentication and user data are encrypted. For secure operation of X-Window, the use of Secure Shell is recommended.


With an additional program, the key-presses of a remote computer can be translated into plain text and viewed under X-Window. When using the xterm program, the forwarding of keystrokes can be prevented by preventing KeyPress events it receives from being forwarded to other applications. To do this, the secure keyboard option must be turned on via the xterm menu so that the corresponding window has exclusive access to the keyboard.



