#M 4.422 Use of BitLocker To Go as of Windows 7
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user, IT security officer

With BitLocker To Go, users with the Windows 7 Enterprise and Ultimate versions can encrypt partitions on removable drives such as USB flash drives, external hard disk drives, or Virtual Hard Drives (VHD). If an encrypted volume is lost or stolen, the data is protected because it can only be decrypted using a password, smart card, or recovery information. The context menu of the respective drive symbol turns BitLocker To Go on by activating BitLocker . No administrative user rights are required for this. The management of encrypted removable drives is done in the Control Panel under Bitlocker Drive Encryption.

Before using BitLocker To Go it is recommended to use B 1.7 crypto-concept. Furthermore, the security guidelines in accordance with M 2.401 Handling of mobile data carriers and devices and M 2.309 security guidelines and regulations for mobile IT use should also be used in which scenarios which groups of persons use encryption must, must or should not. It should be noted that with BitLocker To Go it is not possible to encrypt individual files, but only one partition of a data carrier.

The biggest challenge is the careful handling of the cryptographic key material by the users (M 2.46 Appropriate Key Management). If it gets into unauthorized hands, the confidentiality of the data is no longer guaranteed. The need for protection with regard to confidentiality and availability of the keys must be at least as high as that of the encrypted data itself. As soon as several users use BitLocker To Go, centralized key management, for example using Active Directory, should be used become.

BitLocker To Go is enabled by default. However, if you do not intend to use BitLocker To Go (see M .2.325 Security Policy Planning for Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7), it should be disabled by Group Policy, otherwise you will be exposed to threats as described in G  3.98 Loss of BitLocker Encrypted Data and G 3.97 Confidentiality Violation May Occur Despite BitLocker Drive Encryption.

The BitLocker To Go settings described below are in Group Policy:

Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows components | BitLocker Drive Encryption | Removable Disk.



## Examples 
* The Recovery Password Viewer is used to manage recovery keys in the Active Directory (see Knowledge Base Article 958830).
* The command-line tool repair-bde.exe is used to back up damaged volumes that have been encrypted by BitLocker.
* Depending on the configuration, the Bitlockertogo.exe tool is automatically copied to a disk encrypted with BitLocker To Go. The tool allows read access to encrypted volumes under Windows XP and Windows Vista if the volume uses the FAT file system.




