#M 4.241 Secure operation of clients
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The secure operation of clients depends on a number of factors. For clients, too, it is particularly important that the administration be carried out with due diligence and exclusively via secure access.

Here are some key points to consider for the secure operation of clients, regardless of the operating system. For individual operating systems, more specific information is given in the corresponding actions of the blocks concerned.



## Examples 
* Local administrationThe administration of clients directly by access via the console is only manageable for a small number of computers and will usually be an exception in environments with a larger number of clients. If, for once, an administrator has to work locally on a client computer, for example, it is important that the administrator ensures that the password can not be spied out when authenticating via a password. If necessary, consideration should be given to using one-time passwords or similar for such work.
* Administration with the help of a boot medium For certain administration work to be performed locally on a client computer, it may be advantageous to use an external boot medium from which the computer is started (see also M 6.24 Creating an Emergency Boot Medium). This offers the advantage that the administrator can be sure of a clean system environment. However, this method also has a number of disadvantages, for example a higher outlay. In addition, it is usually not possible in this way to understand certain error messages that occur during operation.
* Remote administration clients are often administered over the network by administration computers. In order to prevent the authentication information of the administrators from being intercepted or even being manipulated by an attacker, the administration should only take place via secure protocols (for example, not via Telnet, but via SSH, not via HTTP, but via HTTPS).




