#M 4.135 Restrictive allocation of access rights to system files
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

System files or directories are files and directories for which the administrator is responsible. These are either important for all users or serve for administration purposes.

As far as possible, only system administrators should have access to system files. The circle of authorized administrators should be kept as small as possible. Even directories may only provide the necessary privileges for the users. The assignment of access rights to system files should in principle be restrictive and only in accordance with the in-house security policies (see also M 2.220 Guidelines for access control).

System files should be stored separately from application data and user files (see also M 2.138 Structured Data Management). This provides a better overview and also facilitates the execution of data backups and ensuring the correct access protection.

Access to system files should always be logged. Superfluous, unnecessary system files should be removed from the system so that they can not be misused for attacks or constantly checked for integrity.

In the restrictive allocation of access rights, it is not enough just to check the rights of a program. In addition, the rights assignment of all programs that are called up from this program must also be checked.

The integrity of all system files and directories, as well as the correctness of access rights, should be regularly verified as far as possible. For many operating systems, there are tools for doing such tests quickly and reliably.



