#M 4.248 Secure installation of Windows client operating systems
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Basically, the out-of-the-box installations from Windows Vista do not always achieve a level of security appropriate for professional use. A separate setup must therefore be planned and used.

During the installation phase, a Windows system is not completely configured (see Planning M 2.324 Introduction of Windows on Clients as of Windows XP), so that the desired security settings may not yet be activated. The installation and initial configuration of a Windows system should therefore be done in a protected environment as far as possible. For the initial installation, response files and policy templates should be used, as the manual installation is risky. The existing checklists should always be kept up to date. Where this is not possible, for example when installing workstation systems locally or over the network, a prepared (and preconfigured) default configuration should be installed as an alternative. As of Windows 7, this type of installation should always be preferred. When using system images, so-called image files, it is important to ensure that all updates and patches that are published at the time of transition are installed before the IT system is put into production operation. A Windows system should be completely updated and provided with updates already released for the institution before it goes into productive operation - especially before it can connect to the Internet or third-party networks.

If a Windows system is not integrated with an Active Directory domain structure, Group Policy configuration, including security settings, must be done locally on the IT system. This should be done manually or script-based on the Microsoft operating systems as of Windows Vista. How exactly the settings are made, is to decide in the planning phase.

The Group Policy mechanism allows a faster, more reliable, more complete, and more confidential initial configuration when the IT system is added to the domain. After joining the domain, the IT system object must be moved to the corresponding organizational unit (OU) in the Active Directory. If the IT system remains in the default Active Computer container Computer, only site and domain GPOs are used, not OU GPOs, because there are no OU GPOs attached to that Active Directory container can be ngt. It is also important to ensure that the IT system is restarted after moving to a new OU. In this way, GPOs linked to these OUs are loaded and applied to the IT system.

After the installation has been completed, it should be ensured that the corresponding security settings have actually been applied. Installed components, applied policies, file system and registry permissions, assigned user rights, and allowed system services should be checked.

In addition, for Windows Vista and Windows 7, the operating system must be activated after the installation has been completed. An only installed and not activated Windows Vista without Service Pack 1 (SP1) is no longer operational after a grace period of 30 days. The Vista Client inevitably falls into the so-called Reduced Functionality Mode (RFM), in which only limited functionality is available. With the release of Service Pack 1 for Windows Vista, Microsoft has withdrawn the RFM. Instead of the RFM, Windows Vista and Windows 7 now display corresponding warning messages, which however are also suitable for hindering or delaying critical work on a Windows Vista or Windows 7 system.

For clients as of Windows 8 (except Enterprise), the product key must now be entered during the installation. Windows 8 Enterprise uses the KMS (Key Management Service) and MAK (Multi Activation Key) mechanisms instead of the product key.

The topic activation is in M 4.336 Activation of Windows systems from Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement and M 4.343 reactivation of Windows systems from Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement deepens.



## Examples 
* Sensitive information such as passwords in response files must be protected against unauthorized access. The passwords used must be encrypted with the Windows System Image Manager when creating the response file using the Setup Manager installation manager or, for Windows Vista clients or later, using the Windows system image manager.
* The use of passwords for inclusion in the domain used in an installation script or answer file must be defined. Because this feature can not be encrypted, an IT system should join the domain through the Windows Deployment Services (WDS) Windows Deployment Services.
* The administrator password must not be empty during unattended installations under Windows XP, otherwise the automatic login will be activated automatically. For Windows Vista and later clients, automatic logon for unattended installations will only be enabled by configuring the appropriate predefined answer file.
* After installation, the scripts and all confidential content files must be deleted immediately (see also M 4.56 Safe Erase on Windows Operating Systems).




