#M 4.251 Working with external IT systems
Initiation Initiation: User, IT Security Officer, Supervisor

Responsible for implementation: users

Often it is necessary to be able to access electronic information of various kinds, even on the move, eg. to be able to synchronize appointments, send e-mails or retrieve individual files. For this it is often the easiest to use foreign IT systems or communication connections, for example

* to download files from an internet cafe,
* in a office of a visited institution via their PCs or their intranet or
* Access the corporate network via WLAN via a hotel hotspot.


Here, however, each user should be aware that this is externally administered IT and therefore additional security measures have to be taken. It should always be assumed that the level of security of the external environment is not known and must therefore be considered as low. Every employee should be aware that foreign computers and foreign environments pose a major security threat. Even if the security level makes an excellent impression, this can be a fallacy.

For example, the current network environment may be less protected than your own laptop, causing problems such as. Computer viruses or Trojan horses can be imported. It may also turn out that in a visited institution there is a completely different understanding of security, so there is no consensus on security objectives, security level and security measures.

In mobile networks it can happen that the network participants constantly change, so new ones come in and others leave the network. This makes it difficult to understand who was also active on this network at any given time. Mobile networks are therefore vulnerable to attacks that may not even be comprehensible, and all statements about existing security levels are very difficult.

Before users log in to third-party networks or use service offerings, they should consider how trustworthy they are. Extremely favorable offers could have been specially set up to spy out or manipulate data on mobile devices. For example, an attacker could provide free Internet access or Wi-Fi access to easily read the data transmitted from there.

Even with the use of relatively simple, manageable services, users must maintain the indispensable care. For example, on the go, it may be necessary to print from the laptop. For this purpose, some print services can be used in hotels, in cybercafes or copy shops or the printers in a visited company can be accessed. However, at least the printed information is made externally accessible to the print job, namely to the respective service providers. The file to be printed must be transferred to the printer and may be cached on IT systems. Expressions can be made several times unnoticed or paper can simply remain lying on the printer.

Therefore, users should consider the following recommendations before working with third-party IT systems or using service offerings:

* You should inform yourself about existing security measures.
* You should think carefully or be guided by the guidelines and regulations for mobile IT use and not use third-party IT systems or service offerings for all conceivable actions and data.


* As soon as the work has ended, all temporary data created during this process should be deleted from a foreign computer. However, this is usually not easy, as many operating systems produce temporary data in a large number of places. In addition, it may also occur in foreign IT systems that the access rights do not allow the deletion of all data created. At least the cache should be cleared.
* Under no circumstances should browser features be used to autocomplete usernames and passwords, so that subsequent users will not find an easy way to log in anywhere under this username.




