#M 4.87 Physical security of cryptomodules
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

As described in M .2.165 Selection of a suitable cryptographic product, crypto modules can be implemented in software, firmware or hardware. Firmware or hardware products are chosen in particular if the crypto module is to be particularly resistant to tampering.

From this point of view, the crypto module should be constructed using physical security measures or by utilizing appropriate material properties so that unauthorized physical access to module contents can be successfully prevented. This should prevent possible technical manipulations or other impairments during operation. Depending on the security level of the crypto module, for example, the use of passivation materials, suitable tamper protection measures or mechanical locks may be considered. An automatic erasure that can actively erase or annihilate all plaintext sensitive key data and parameters within the crypto module after identified attack attempts also belongs to this category of action.

With the use of various sensors and monitoring devices, it is possible to ensure that the crypto module -which concerns voltage supply, timing, temperature, mechanical stress, electromagnetic interference, etc.- is operated in its intended working range.

In order to maintain its intended functionality, the crypto module should be able to initiate and perform self-tests. These tests can cover the following areas: algorithm tests, software and firmware tests, bump tests, statistical random tests, consistency tests, condition tests, and key generation and loading tests. Following a negative test result, the user of the crypto module should be signaled an appropriate error message and a corresponding error state should be taken. Only after the cause of the fault has been corrected may an activation be possible from this error state.

When using software products, the physical security of the crypto module must be provided by the respective IT system or its environment of use. Safety requirements for such IT systems can be found in the system-specific modules.

A software solution should be able to perform self-tests to detect modifications by Trojan horses or coputer virus.



