#M 4.458 Planning the use of web services
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

Before using a web service, determine the exact purpose that the web service should perform. Because web services are just one type of communication between machines and bring with them specific advantages and disadvantages compared to other forms of application and service integration. Not every application is suitable for web services. Cost-benefit considerations also play a role here. Thus, the throughput of data, especially with the consistent use of web service security standards, will regularly be significantly worse than with traditional mass data transmission methods. On the other hand, there are advantages in the reusability of services and functions and in the scalability of applications by distributing the tasks to different services.

It begins with a thorough analysis of the requirements, which should also be documented. It is advisable to start with a mapping of the affected processes on a high level of abstraction, then to sketch the work flows in the actual and target and, based on this, to detail a design with inputs, outputs, interfaces and data. Likewise identify providers, consumers, communication links and required service directories. For the latter, it has to be decided whether and which web services should be published therein.

A basic decision is for a REST or SOAP based web service. While SOAP is much more prevalent in internal business applications and is built on a variety of tools and standards, REST is primarily found in the agile web environment. Ultimately, the decision will essentially depend on the other services and applications that are already in place, yet to be created or connected. In any case, the consequences of the basic architectural decision are to be considered and played through at the beginning.

This is particularly relevant when creating a service-oriented architecture (SOA) or integrating a service into an existing SOA. Here are questions of the SOA operating model to clarify: Who is responsible within the institution for the functional functionality and for the processed information? Roles and responsibilities are now to be determined and documented.

Whether to redesign an architecture towards service orientation is a strategic decision that should go hand in hand with the web service strategy and platform strategy. If many web services can interact with each other in different, possibly changing ways - one speaks of orchestration - then modeling and description languages ??such as BPMN or BPEL can be used to facilitate the interaction of business processes control. However, this makes sense at the earliest when there is a sufficiently large number of web services that are to be linked in various ways in order to create new services.

Particularly suitable for the execution as a Web service are services that are required by several applications or other services. It should also be taken into account that the services could not only be used internally. If these other institutions are made available, it is important to clarify who decides on the provision of services and data to third parties. In addition, the safeguarding of network connections and communication interfaces must be considered so that the web services can be addressed to the extent required externally, without the security of internal networks being unnecessarily compromised. Frequently, company data is transported across network segments and through firewalls to unlocked ports such as 80 (HTTP) or 443 (HTTPS). Malware can also get into the institution in this way, for example as an embedded file. Here, protection concepts and technical security measures such as application level gateways (ALG) are to be checked and, if necessary, adapted.

In order to protect the web service against attacks, suitable security measures must also be provided during the implementation, for example a consistent validation of input and output data and conformity checks of the processed XML data. Here, too, appropriate specifications should be developed and documented in the planning phase.

In order to be able to decide on the introduction of web services, the associated risks and the necessary security, it is important to document the complete functionality of the web service and to keep this documentation up-to-date. This is best done for all web services in one central location. When using the web service by multiple parties, all sites should have access to this information.

The lifecycle of a web service also has an impact on multiple use: It must be clarified and described how changes to a web service used by several applications or organizations can be made. The same applies to the shutdown at the end of the life cycle.

For the realization of the web service functionality, it is recommended to use proven and well-tested components, since the matter is complex and programming errors frequently occur in the case of in-house developments. For both the application server and web service libraries or frameworks, products should be selected that are actively maintained, and where information about vulnerabilities and patches is available in a timely manner.

If more complex standards are used, such as WS-Security, WS-Trust or WS-Federation, the mutual dependency and influence on the various security functions must be precisely planned and tested. Ultimately, maintaining security in a complete SOA requires an interplay of standards, concepts and mechanisms that goes beyond securing a client-server relationship. Special expertise is required here.

In addition to other security objectives, which may play a role depending on the intended purpose, it is almost always important to ensure communication between the service user and the service provider. This can be done either at the transport level, if the transport route of the messages allows this (for example through SSL / TLSbeiHTTP) or at the message level. The latter, in addition to the end-to-end protection, also allows the security parameters to be selected and evaluated in a finer granularity, for example the signature or encryption only for specific parts of a message. In-depth knowledge of the mechanisms used is necessary to avoid vulnerability to protocol vulnerabilities or implementation, such as XML Signature Wrapping (see G 5.183 Attacks on XML). In addition, end-to-end encryption makes it difficult to filter malicious messages. This can help terminate encryption at the Application Level Gateway.

To take full advantage of web services, especially their reusability and scalability, it is critical not to redesign identity and access management on a per-service basis. The planning of the web service landscape therefore also includes the planning of the comprehensive administration of users and rights. More details can be found in the measures M 4.456 Authentication for Web Services and M 4.455 Authorization for Web Services.

The above-mentioned aspects required for the planning of a web service also apply in a similar manner to classic IT applications. However, the potential for multi-use and orchestration to overarching tasks and the technical complexity of standards and protocols increase the impact of planning deficiencies on project success over other technologies.



