#M 4.245 Basic settings for Windows Group Policy Objects
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

With each new Windows client and server operating system version, additional new Group Policy Objects will also appear. Among the tools of the IT-Grundschutz are guidelines for Windows XP and Windows Server 2003, which contain security settings in tabular form. These can serve as the basis for the security settings within a group policy. Among other things, the suggested values ??result from the requirements of S 4.244 Secure system configuration of Windows client operating systems and S 5.123 Securing network communication under Windows. The specifications for assigning authorizations can be found in S 4.247 Restrictive Authorization from Windows Vista and in the IT Baseline Protection Aids.

With the newer versions of Windows, setting options using Group Policy Objects become more complex. On the BSI website you will find technical security templates for the tools / information of external users, which can take into account the specifications of the IT-Grundschutz catalogs and can be adapted to your own IT environment with the aid of Microsoft's Security Compliance Manager ,

The specified values ??must be adapted to the local conditions. In the context of the Group Policy Concept, the individual values ??must also be distributed among different Group Policy Objects and adapted to the intended purpose. As a result, different values ??can also be created for individual entries.

If the specified basic settings are adjusted and, in particular, mitigated, any possible safety-relevant effects resulting from these changes must be investigated.



