#M 4.313 Provision of secure domain controllers
Responsible for initiation: specialist responsible, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Since the Active Directory infrastructure is stored on the domain controllers, they must be configured accordingly. The following security recommendations are designed to help minimize the risks associated with deploying domain controllers.



## Examples 
* Regular updates of current hotfixes and service packsImmediate hotfixes and service packs should be installed at regular intervals. However, the effects should first be thoroughly tested on an image of the reference domain controller.
* Issuing strong passwordsFor the user accounts in Active Directory, passwords must be strong enough. This is to ensure that unauthorized access can not be gained. Information on sufficiently strong passwords can be found in measure M 2.11 Control of password usage. In addition to the creation of complex passwords, it must be ensured that the passwords are passed on to the persons concerned by way of trust. Also, the user accounts should be equipped with individual passwords, especially during initial setup.
* Disabling the automatic generation of so-called 8.3 file names in NTFS. The automatic generation of 8.3 file names (ie those with eight characters for the file name, three characters for the file extension) should be disabled to allow viruses and attacks that are specific Target 8.3-compatible file names can be avoided. Especially if 16-bit applications are no longer used, this function is no longer necessary. In addition, this significantly increases the performance of listing directories. For this, the following entry must be defined under HKLM / SYSTEM / CurrentControlSet / Control / FileSystem: Entry name = NtfsDisable8dot3NameCreation Data type = REG_DWORD Value = Changes to the registry keys should first be tested for their compatibility and effects within a test environment.
* Disabling Pr  Windows 2000 Compatibility: If there are no servers running Windows NT 4.0 inside or outside the forest, or Windows 2000 servers running in a trusting domain outside the forest, they will be waived Pr -Windows 2000 compatibility necessary. Otherwise, access permissions would be granted to allow anonymous access to Active Directory information.
* Ensuring the Integrity of the Installation If the domain controllers are deployed to a different destination location, signatures should be used to transport them to ensure the integrity of the installations




