#M 4.268 Secure configuration of SAP Java Stack permissions
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

When planning and configuring the SAP Java stack authorizations, the following must be considered:

* The SAP Java Stack Authorization Concept differs fundamentally from the authorization concept of the ABAP stack, since the concepts of the Java specification J2EE are implemented here.
* Proper and secure configuration requires detailed knowledge of the J2EE security model and security concepts. Therefore, the configuration should only be done by trained administrators.
* The configuration of the access restrictions on resources and for Java Protection Domains (Code Security) is done via the security service.
* Access restrictions on the JNDI objects (Java object registry and name service) are made via the naming service.
* Access restrictions on Java bean methods are made via the ejb service in the properties of the individual bean objects on the Security tab.
* The available objects depend on the installed applications.
* The root group, which is available in versions prior to 6.40, does not designate a group of administrators, but all users. The group therefore corresponds more to the comparable Windows group Everyone / Everyone.
* After installation, the default permissions must be checked and, if necessary, changed according to the created authorization concept.


In general, the authorizations are restrictive. In the context of authorization planning, it must be decided in each case which user has which authorization for which objects.



