#M 4.246 Configure system services on clients as of Windows XP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The secure configuration of individual system services that are executed on an IT system contributes significantly to the overall security of the information network. Non-user system processes work independently of user accounts and logged in users, and provide important basic functionality for the Windows components. Any unneeded but activated service can be a source of danger. Therefore, before configuring Windows clients, perform a needs analysis. Exclusively necessary services may be executed. For a centralized configuration of services, it is recommended that you use appropriate Group Policy in an Active Directory environment. For this, individual services in the computer part of a GPO are under Computer Configuration | Windows Settings | Security Settings | System Services is enabled or disabled in the Group Policy Management Editor. The deactivation of the services can also be made locally on the respective system by the administrator.

In a Windows Server 2003 domain tree, the Windows Vista and Windows 7-specific configurations of the services can only be configured using the GPOAccelerator tool via Group Policy. This concerns:

* the configuration of the startup mode Automatic (Delayed Start) for the services and
* the configuration of the services newly added under Windows Vista and Windows 7.


The GPOAccelerator tool has now been completely replaced by Microsoft Security Compliance Manager (MS SCM). Like its predecessor, the SCM is suitable for administrators when configuring and implementing security policies for clients (as of Windows XP SP3), servers (as of Windows Server 2003 SP3) and applications (Exchange, Office and Internet Explorer). For this, the SCM provides several security templates that can be adapted accordingly. After the administrator has created a custom baseline with the required security settings, it is possible to import them as a group policy on a domain controller and apply them to domain systems. The SCM also provides the LocalGPO tool, which allows the administrator to import and apply the previously created security policy to stand-alone systems for consistent client configuration. The SCM is also suitable for configuring system services.

Further details about the tool GPOAccelerator and Microsoft Security Compliance Manager are described in the section M 4.243 Administration Tools under Windows Client Operating Systems.

Especially with newer operating systems such as. Windows 7 and Windows 8 are becoming more and more important for checking and disabling unnecessary services, as these operating systems introduce more and more new features that are often not deployed but still offer some potential for attack through an active service , For this reason, Microsoft already sets the startup type of many services to manual by default, which causes the service to start only when it is actually required or has any dependency on another service.

For each service, Microsoft provides a detailed description of what it is about in the Services Management via Group Policy or with the SCM. Based on the description, each administrator should be able to understand for himself whether the service is necessary for the environment in which the system is operated.

The IT Baseline Protection tools show preferences for configuring system services that can be used as the basis for security settings. It should be noted that the configuration of individual system services always depends on local conditions or requirements and should therefore be seen in this specific context. In individual cases, it may be necessary to resort to less secure configurations due to local conditions. However, additional protective measures should be initiated to compensate for the lack of security in the service configuration. Examples include the use of an additional firewall or organizational measures.

To secure services under Windows server operating systems, the Security Configuration Wizard, which has been integrated since Windows Server 2003, can also be used. It is able to decide which system services to enable or disable based on the assigned server role. A security policy created with the wizard can then be applied to other systems as well.

If an account is required for the services running on the client, it is recommended to use the Managed Service Accounts available from Windows 7. These accounts can be managed through the domain's Active Directory and allow password management over the domain where the AD periodically performs automated password changes.



