#M 4.489 Secure and authenticated boot process for embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: procurer, developer, planner

The boot process of an embedded system must not be compromisable. It must not be possible to boot from unauthenticated boot media or to transfer data. It must be ensured that the software used was written or released by an authorized entity.

The boot process should be secured by checking the bootloader's integrity of the operating system, and only solving it if it is considered correct. The operating system should only start if the boot loader has been confirmed as trustworthy by a reverse check.

This can be checked by means of asymmetrical cryptography methods. Currently (as of 2015) come daf rz. B. Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) and RSA (Rivest, Shamir and Adleman) in combination with SHA (secure hash algorithm). A hash value is calculated by the original software and signed with the private key of the publisher. He is checked with the public key. The authenticity of the public key must be ensured by means of the PKI procedure.

A secure boot process should be done in stages. First of all, a minimal boot loader (ROM loader) programmed into the ROM during production must be running. This must have a previously programmed cryptographic key to verify in turn the digital signature of the next boot loader. The hardware must be able to provide this initial verification key; it can be integrated into the ROM via a programmable fuse or stored in a local Trusted Platform Module (TPM), see also M4.483 Use of cryptographic processors or coprocessors ( Trusted Platform Module) for embedded systems. The ROM loader loads another boot loader with more functions, which then starts the operating system or another loader. The signature must also be stored in the hardware-protected area because the signature key verifies that the components are true in the second (and possibly later) stage of the boot process. The software to be executed can be loaded in several stages, whereby the signature of the next level is checked by the current level. If a signature verification fails or a connection is interrupted, it must be assumed that the secure state is violated.

Often, embedded systems do not use x86 based basic input / output system (BIOS) or unified extensible firmware interface (UEFI) -based devices with the universal boot loader (submarine). However, in its specifications, the TCG refers in particular to an implementation of the RTM in the pre-Bios, or in the UEFI, in which the RTM is particularly to be protected. In many cases, however, there is already the possibility of a secure startup of software without Trusted Computing. B.ARMSecure boot or write-once storage that is protected against physical manipulation.



