#M 4.255 Use of IrDA interfaces
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

The Infrared Data Association (IrDA) has published specifications that initially defined the lower layers of a protocol for an infrared interface. Infrared light is used as a carrier for data exchange over short distances. IrDA is now supported by all major operating systems, but this interface is becoming less important than Bluetooth, WLAN or USB.

The ImIrDA standard does not specify any security mechanisms to prevent the traffic from being monitored. The data are only saved at protocol level by means of checksum methods against transmission errors. Security mechanisms such as authentication, cryptographic integrity protection and encryption are not available. These might have to be implemented at the application level. To some extent, the transmission is protected by the very limited range of infrared rays and the need for a line-of-sight connection. However, the security level of these systems is below that of the wired input devices due to the possible stray radiation. At the same time, the short range is also a threat to availability, since the communication is immediately interrupted if the line of sight is lost for a short time. Other radio interfaces, such as WLAN or Bluetooth, which are not dependent on the network operator, do not have these disadvantages and offer additional security functions such as encryption and authentication of the terminals. Therefore, if possible, the IrDA interface should not be used.

If this happens, then the IrDA interface should only be activated if there is a specific need. Since authentication is not provided for in the protocol, any partner can send data to a device via the IrDA interface. For example, a mobile phone with an activated IrDA interface accepts SMS messages for delivery. It is also possible to send programs to a PDA or laptop, which may contain malicious software. In addition, an activated IrDAIrDA interface additionally loads the battery or the battery of the mobile device.

Since the coupling is only possible in a very limited range, the communication can usually not be heard. The existing low residual risk due to the stray radiation of the IrDA components can be further minimized by the use of additional security mechanisms (eg, application-level authentication and encryption) or the replacement of IrDA by wireline transmission.



