#M 4.95 Minimal operating system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Computers in a safety-critical environment should be designed so that they offer as few attack points as possible. Because today's operating systems provide many network services by default, a well-designed server service (such as an SSL-based web server) is not enough to run a secure server. Rather, the operating system must also be protected, since otherwise the security functions of the server service could be bypassed via a weak point in the operating system. A so-called minimal operating system is characterized by the fact that it ideally does not provide a single network service. A potential attacker can not exploit a vulnerability in a network service of this operating system. And if an attacker has gotten access to the computer through a vulnerability, it is further hampered by the minimal system. The fewer programs an attacker encounters on a target computer, the more difficult it becomes for him to find or exploit further vulnerabilities in the target computer. In addition, this greatly facilitates the maintenance of a server because the patches or service packs for service programs no longer need to be imported if they are not available.

The following describes the configuration of an operating system based on an Internet server, since in general very high security requirements must be imposed on the operating system.

An Internet server usually has only one task: to stably provide a certain number of services (eg the willingness to accept e-mail) to other computers. The underlying operating system should not provide any additional services. Therefore, the following procedure should be followed when installing an Internet server:



## Examples 
* Do computers provide as few attack points as possible in a security-critical environment?
* Installation of the operating system: Will only necessary packages be installed?
* Starting the computer: Are unneeded programs deactivated or already deleted?
* Are the required utilities limited as far as possible in their functions and can only authorized computers access the utilities?
* Are on the operating systems security programs such. Software Packet Filters or Integrity Checker Installed?
* Remote Administration: Are appropriate security products installed and is the security of the systems regularly checked?




