#M 4.302 Logging on printers, copiers and multifunction devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Activity on printers, copiers and multifunction devices should be monitored and logged for many reasons. On the one hand, activated logging helps to identify and eliminate potential weaknesses as early as possible. On the other hand, logging is used to detect violations of the security policy (see M 2.398 User Guidelines for the Handling of Printers, Copiers and Multifunction Devices) or to investigate a security incident. In addition, the monitoring can usually also be used to detect in good time whether consumables need to be replenished.

The following central questions should at least be answered in the context of logging on printers, copiers and multifunctional devices:

* Which information should be logged?
* How should be logged?
* Who is entitled or responsible to evaluate the logs?
* How and when are the logs evaluated?
* Who should be notified as when certain events occur?
* How long must and can the log data be kept and how is the deletion done?


It must be carefully selected which information should be logged. If too much information is stored, it can happen that important events are overlooked during the evaluation. If too little is logged, important information can not be captured.

From a security point of view, the following events have proven to be particularly relevant for logging; the list is sorted in descending order of priority:

* Changes to the configuration settings must always be logged.
* Failed and, in the case of a higher protection requirement, successful authentication processes should also be logged. This concerns both local applications and accesses via the network.
* The system resources and measurements for operational safety must always be monitored for critical values. This includes, for example, information about the temperature, the load and the free storage space.
* To avoid bottlenecks in the supply, information on the consumption of paper and toner should be logged and evaluated.
* Entries, who printed at what time or used the device, may also be recorded.


Depending on the device and the application, it may be appropriate to deviate from these events or to consider additional events when determining the scope of logging, for example switching on and off the device. In practice, the scope of logging also depends on the extent to which the respective device type technically supports the logging of the various events.

After determining which information to log, it must be clarified where the log data is stored. If possible, central logging servers should be used for this. Otherwise, the log files must be stored locally on the individual devices.

For logging in networked IT systems, a time synchronization should be used. This is used to reliably compare the events with the information to be logged from other systems (see M 4.227 Using a local NTP server for time synchronization).

Log data must not only be stored, but also systematically evaluated. Again, it must be determined who is responsible and which procedure is to be followed. Recommendations can be found, inter alia, in M 2.64 control of the log files.

If unexpected or pending events occur in the logs, you must respond accordingly. For example, a variety of failed authentication attempts may indicate an attack or insufficiently informed users. But even normal events may require a response. If, for example, consumables reach a minimum level, they must be replaced in good time. Therefore, the responsible administrator or responsible for the consumables should be informed promptly.

If personal information is archived, the applicable laws and regulations must be adhered to. These include above all the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) and the corresponding laws of the countries. Further information can be found in M 2.110 Data protection aspects during logging.



