#M 4.499 Appropriate choice of identity and entitlement management systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, IT Security Officer, Procurement

When choosing suitable solutions for identity and authorization management, not only technical questions play a role. In practice, it has been shown that organizational aspects are essential success factors. An identity and entitlement management system must first and foremost be geared to the institution and its respective business processes, organizational structures and processes and their protection needs, and secondarily integrated into the existing infrastructure. It must be able to map the guidelines for handling identities and authorizations available in the institution. These include, for example, the requirements of M 2.220 guidelines for access and access control.

Identity and entitlement management systems are complex systems, the introduction of which requires a great deal of knowledge about technology, business processes and authorization models, so that it is often necessary to work together with external consultants. The connection of the different IT systems can be done by different technical approaches, eg. B.with directory services. A technological requirement is to integrate the different authorization management of heterogeneous applications centrally.

To be clarified are u.a. The following points:

* Should a centralized or decentralized solution be used?
* Should a single sign-on procedure be used?
* Should the authentication be about ownership, knowledge and / or biometric characteristics?
* Should the application be based on synchronization or a central database synchronization for a centralized solution (reduced sign-on)?
* Which interfaces are required for the connection of IT systems with the identity and authorization management system?


With the introduction of an identity and authorization management system, the desire quickly arises that users do not have to log on to each IT system with a different password. On the contrary, even with large heterogeneous networks, users only need to authenticate themselves to the first used IT system. Such a method, which is called single-sign-on, then passes the authentication information on to all other IT systems.

From practice, it has been proven, first of all, to strive for a reduced sign-on, that is to say to reduce the number of log-on processes per user. Already this way, users as well as the administrators can be significantly relieved.

There are a variety of different mechanisms for identification as well as for authentication. When selecting suitable mechanisms, the protection requirements of the information and business processes protected should be in the foreground (see also S 4.133 Suitable Selection of Authentication Mechanisms).

For a suitable selection of an identity and authorization management system, selection criteria must be derived from the concrete requirements of the institution (see also measures M 4.133 Suitable selection of authentication mechanisms, M 4.500 Secure use of systems for Identity and authorization management, M 2.555 Development of an authentication concept for applications and M 4.498 Secure use of single sign-on Secure use of single sign-on).

The following are some examples of selection criteria for an Identity and Entitlement Management system:

* Can the principle of separation of functions be realized (M 2.5 task assignment and function separation)?
* Interoperability: Is the identity and authorization management system able to centrally integrate the different authorization management of heterogeneous applications?
* Does the application support the use of the planned authentication factors knowledge, possession or biometrics?
* Is scaling of authentication requirements possible depending on protection requirements?
* Are permissible rights changes or the right to withdraw rights possible at short notice if they are needed urgently (eg employee is released without notice)?
* Is authentication data adequately protected during storage and processing (not stored as plaintext, but always encrypted or transferred)?
* Do the cryptographic functions available in the identity and authorization management system meet the protection requirements and do they have sufficient mechanism strength (see also M 2.164 Selection of a suitable cryptographic method)?
* Are the authentication data securely managed? Is it ensured that, for example, passwords are never stored unscrambled on the corresponding IT systems?
* How quickly can the identities, permissions or passwords be changed, eg. suspected compromise?
* Can the reaction to incorrect authentication attempts be set up according to the security requirements?
* Can the security-critical parameters be configured as authentication requirements according to the security specifications?
* Can the identity and authorization management system be used to set up (read, write, execute, change) differentiated rights structures in assigned areas for the administrative staff? Are the data relevant for the rights management tamper-proof stored by the product?
* Does the Identity and Entitlement Management System have proper logging? Is it ensured that unauthorized logging can not be disabled? Are the protocols themselves neither readable nor modifiable for unauthorized persons? Is logging clear, complete and correct?
* Does the Identity and Entitlement Management System have a clear and easy-to-use protocol evaluation?




