#M 4.354 Monitoring a DNS server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to maintain the security of a DNS server in operation, it is not enough to rely solely on careful planning and initial configuration. A number of measures have to be taken to detect potential problems and safety-critical gaps.

The capacity requirements must already be defined in the planning. Due to the fact that the capacity requirements of the

* Size of the zone (s),
* Number of requests,
* Number of recursive requests,
* Number of zone transfers,
* Number of dynamic updates, etc.


It is difficult to plan the required capacity. Therefore, a DNS server must be regularly monitored for utilization in order to adjust the power capacity of the hardware, if necessary. Furthermore, an increased load can be an indicator of an ongoing attack.

Modifications to the configuration must be carefully documented, so that it is comprehensible at any time who has changed something and for what reason. A revision control program can be used to make changes to the configuration files in order to facilitate documentation and to return to earlier configuration settings (see M .2.25 System Configuration Documentation).

Furthermore, the access permissions of the DNS server in the file system must be checked regularly. In particular, this should happen after software updates or configuration changes.

The administrators must inform themselves about current security gaps in the software used in good time (see also M 2.35 Obtaining information about security gaps in the system).

The log files of the DNS server and the underlying operating system should be checked and evaluated regularly. Irregularities in the log files, which can be indications of possible problems, are for example:

* A call for requests from specific sources
* A call for (failed) zone transfers
* A request for specific domain names
* A call for requests for domain names that do not exist
* A call for unauthorized recursive requests


Irregularities do not necessarily mean that the server is compromised. Often, irregularities occur due to incorrect settings.

Other regular preventive care measures are part of safe operation (see also M 6.139 Creating an emergency plan for DNS servers).



