#M 4.431 Selection and processing of relevant information for logging
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Log data must contain meaningful information. It does not matter if they are recorded locally or centrally or if they are provided for an IT early warning system. Among other things, the events that are logged depend on the protection requirements of the respective IT systems and must be coordinated and defined in advance in the institution (see M 2.500 Logging of IT systems). Among other things, the following events are particularly important:

* wrong password input for a user ID,
* Blocking of a user ID,
* Attempts of unauthorized access,
* Failure or malfunction of the hardware,
* Data on network utilization and congestion as well
* Information or warning messages from intrusion detection systems.


An IT early warning system can extract messages from these events, qualify them and prepare them in a clear way. For this purpose, the protocol data are filtered in advance, normalized, aggregated and categorized.



## Examples 
* Correlation within the same device class (for example, security gateways): This analyzes whether workloads and abnormal behavior occur within the device class. From this, for example, trend reports are generated.
* A correlation of device classes with similar data fields (eg security gateways and routers): Here you can analyze the course of an attack in an extended manner.
* A correlation across different device classes: Only this allows a comprehensive insight at the transport and application level. For example, the virus scanner of a workstation reports a worm and its quarantine. Afterwards, the IDS reports an increase in network traffic on a dedicated port, starting from the system with the malware infestation. Without correlation, these two single messages could be considered irrelevant or be lost in the amount of log messages.




