#M 4.86 Secure role sharing and configuration of crypto modules
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Many cryptographic security components provide the ability to distinguish between multiple user roles and the associated actions that can be performed by authorized personnel. Depending on the need for protection, access control and authentication mechanisms are required to verify that a user is actually authorized to perform the service requested. With regard to the different roles, the following subdivision is available:

* User role responsible for using and using the security component (eg end user, user).
* Operator role responsible for installation and crypto management (eg security administrator).


And at least one

* Maintenance role, which is responsible for maintenance and repair work (eg maintenance technician, auditor).


For crypto components where the user and administrator roles can be separated, this option should also be used and the administration should specify basic settings, such as: Password length or key phrase so that users can not choose unsafe settings for convenience or ignorance.

In addition to the different roles, the different actions or the services provided by the security component must be differentiated accordingly. A crypto module should provide at least the following services:

* Status display for outputting the current status of the crypto component,
* Self-test for the initialization and execution of self-testing self-tests,
* Bypass for activating and deactivating a bypass by means of which clear information or unsecured data is transported by the crypto module.


The required authentication of the staff against the security component is provided by a variety of different techniques: password, PIN, cryptographic keys, biometric features, etc. The crypto component should be configured so that each time a role changes or becomes inactive the authentication information must be entered again for a certain period of time. Furthermore, a restriction of the authentication attempts is recommended at this point (eg by setting the error counter to 3).



