#M 4.319 Secure installation of VPN terminals
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The establishment of a VPN can be started as soon as the required components have been procured for it (see M 2.419 Suitable Selection of VPN Products). The basic prerequisite for secure VPN operation is that the installation and configuration of all components is conscientious and that the required VPN security features can actually be used to implement the required security functions.

In addition, the security of the IT systems on which the VPN components are used must be ensured. This particularly applies to IT systems that have a standard operating system installed and run as a VPN endpoint (example: Linux system with VPN support). Therefore, the general security measures for each of these operating systems must first be implemented, as described in the respective building blocks of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs. There are also VPN components in which the configuration of the platform is specified by the manufacturer and can not be changed (VPN appliances). The use of such VPN devices saves time on the one hand and, unlike an individual solution, less expert IT personnel are needed, eg. for the configuration of the operating system. On the other hand, when using appliances, the specifications of the manufacturer must be trusted.

When installing a VPN, the following points should also be considered:

* During the installation phase, neither users nor third parties should be able to access the VPN or any part of it. There must be no connections to other networks in this phase.
* It must be ensured that the installation of all VPN components is carried out by qualified personnel. This can be particularly difficult if the locations to be networked are geographically far apart. For example, it must be clarified whether the necessary personnel resources for a VPN installation are also available in other countries. Even VPN endpoints on mobile IT systems, such as laptops of field workers, may only be installed by qualified IT personnel.
* The installation and configuration of the VPN components must be documented. This can be done either by a separate installation documentation or by a confirmation that the installation complies with the planning specifications. Deviations from the specified system architecture (for example, additional connections) must be justified and documented here. The quality of the documentation plays an essential role in the continuous improvement of the VPN.
* The correct function of each individual component must be checked (eg by function tests or self-tests or load tests).
* For the products used, all current safety-related patches or firmware updates must be imported before commissioning.
* For each safety-relevant setting, a functional test of the safety mechanisms must be carried out. For example, the encryption of the connection and the authentication functions used should be checked by means of a network analysis tool (see also M 5.76 Use of suitable tunnel protocols for VPN communication).
* Before the system is put into productive use, it must be set up and tested in a separate environment from the productive network. It is also advisable to perform performance measurements and a key distribution test already in the test environment. After completing the installation, the correct functioning of the entire system must be checked (acceptance and approval of the installation). In all tests carried out care must be taken to ensure that only authorized persons have access to the VPN.


Once the basic installation has been completed, you can start with the configuration performed in step M 4.320 Secure VPN Configuration. This must transfer the system to a safe operating state so that ongoing operation can then be started. For the smooth operation of the VPN, the procedures required in operation M 4.321 Secure operation of a VPN are essential. The findings and corrective measures gained must be adequately documented and incorporated into the detailed concept.



## Examples 
* The server functions of the VPN service must be deactivated. This is done by allowing only outgoing calls on all devices that can be used for remote access (eg modem, ISDN card, VPN adapter).
* For the VPN client, only the protocols approved for Remote Access are to be released.
* The parameters defined in the VPN security concept with respect to integrity, authenticity and confidentiality must be configured accordingly.




