#M 4.238 Use of a local packet filter
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The entire network of an organization should be protected by an appropriate security gateway. Servers offering services to the outside should be located in a demilitarized zone (DMZ). Nevertheless, it is advisable to set up appropriate access restrictions at the application or network level on every computer. This also applies to servers that are only used internally and last but not least for clients.

A local packet filter can protect a machine against attacks launched from the same subnet. In addition, such a packet filter can be used to realize a finer graded access control for individual services than is possible, for example, with packet filters only at network transitions.

In addition, a local packet filter can also be used to limit outgoing network connections and thus limit the consequences of compromising the system. Although such protection may be disabled by an attacker after a successful compromise of the computer, on the other hand, an attacker is at least hindered in this way. In this way, decisive time can be gained in the discovery and possible reactions.

Finally, the log function of a local packet filter can make it possible to detect certain attacks at all.

Virtually all current operating systems provide the ability to define filters that examine and handle all packets received or to be sent according to specific rules. The filter options differ considerably between the individual operating systems. Practically, however, rules can be defined based on the source and destination address of the packet as well as the type of protocol used (TCP / IP, UDP / IP, ICMP, etc.) and, if applicable, the source or destination port. By means of packet filter rules, for example, packets originating from specific computers or from specific subnets can be purposefully discarded.

Some server applications have their own mechanisms to allow or deny access to the service for individual IP addresses or ranges of addresses. In contrast to these mechanisms, a local packet filter at the operating system level has the advantage of protecting the service itself against possible attacks leading to compromise before the built-in access restriction can even take effect.

In principle, all servers with high protection requirements should be protected with a local packet filter.

There are two general strategies that can be used to implement packet filtering rules: The blacklist strategy allows all kinds of connections that do not meet certain exclusion criteria (Free strategy: Everything is allowed, which is not explicitly forbidden) , The advantage lies in one

possibly less effort during administration and troubleshooting. A serious disadvantage, however, is that forgotten rules that allow access to unprotected network services can serve as a basis for an attack.

In contrast, the whitelist strategy blocks all types of connections that do not belong to a list of allowed services (Restrictive strategy: Everything is forbidden, which is not explicitly allowed).

The whitelist strategy offers greater security and should therefore be used in principle, if not important reasons speak against it. The downside is a higher administrative overhead, as new rules need to be defined each time the requirements change. In exceptional cases, such as when a protocol does not work on well-defined ports, the blacklist strategy can be used.

It is recommended to set up a local packet filter with a basic set of rules on all servers as part of the basic configuration, in which all connection requests are rejected from the outside. This policy should be active when the system is connected to the mains. Depending on which services are to be offered by the system, after their configuration the required protocols and ports can be released. For clients, too, this procedure should at least be taken into consideration if they place particular demands on security.

Packet filters usually allow detailed logging of network traffic. Setting up a local packet filter is therefore also useful in secure networks, which are separated with a security gateway from an insecure network such as the Internet, because information gained can be helpful for the detection of attacks. However, care must be taken to ensure that no privacy policy is violated. Where appropriate, the relevant bodies (data protection officers, staff representatives or others) should be involved.



## Examples 
* Are local access restrictions at the network and application level implemented on IT systems?
* Is the security strategy of the local firewall in accordance with the whitelist procedure restrictive?
* Is there a basic configuration for configuring a local packet filter?
* Are measures taken for local ICMP filtering?
* Is the local firewall policy periodically checked?
* Is the policy for using a local firewall regularly updated?




