#M 4.172 Logging of archive accesses
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The accesses to electronic archives are to be logged. This is to ensure the traceability of the activities and possible error corrections are made possible. The following list gives an overview of the types of events that can be detected by logging:

* Confidentiality or integrity loss of data due to misbehavior of IT users,
* incorrect administration of access and access rights,
* Switching off the server during operation,
* Infringement  against legal framework conditions when using archive systems,
* defective data carriers,
* Loss of stored data,
* Loss of data when the storage medium is used up,
* Manipulation of data or software,
* unauthorized copying of the data carriers,
* Manipulation of a crypto module,
* Compromise cryptographic keys and
* unauthorized overwriting or deletion of archive media.


On the one hand, the scope of the logging depends on the requirements for traceability and authenticity of the documents stored in archives. On the other hand, the regulations agreed within the organization, eg. for privacy, to be respected.

If possible, at least the following data should be logged:

* Date and time of access,
* Client system accessed from
* Archive user and completed user role,
* executed actions as well
* possible error messages and codes.


The duration of the storage of the log data must be defined in the archiving concept.

The log data must be evaluated regularly in compliance with internal organization requirements in order to detect misuse and system errors. The evaluation can be done manually or with the support of a tool. In advance, critical events should be defined, ie those in which an administrator is to be notified. Such incidents should be signaled immediately, eg. using existing systems management environments. It is also important that the notification is roll-related, not person-related. For example, if an e-mail is sent to a specific person, the message may go unnoticed if that person is not present.

The following events typically have a high criticality during archiving and should therefore be permanently logged, monitored and immediately signaled when they occur:

* Copying archive media,
* Copying archive system data carriers,
* Deleting or deleting datasets,
* Offline switching of archive media in archive systems,
* Extraction of archive media from the archive system,
* Inserting archive media,
* Online switching of archive media,
* Errors or problems accessing the archive,
* System errors and timeouts,
* Catastrophic scenarios (fire, inadmissible temperature, water, etc.), which are usually reported by external sensors.


After the signaling, the event should be checked immediately and, if necessary, escalated further. Typically, a first escalation occurs at the conductor  IT. Organizationally, however, other escalation processes may also be provided.



