#M 4.434 Secure use of appliances
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Appliances are devices that have been specially designed for a purpose, such as: For use as a firewall, router, packet filter, NAS or VoIP system. This offers the advantage that the hardware and software are optimally coordinated and that the sometimes complex processes are easy for the user. The configuration is usually largely made by the manufacturer. They are often delivered ready for use and can be put into operation after a few elementary inputs. Appliances are therefore often easy to install and operate. Conversely, the configuration of an appliance is less flexible and therefore offers fewer options for adapting to individual needs than a solution that has been assembled individually from IT components (either by itself or by a service provider).

Self-assembled devices such as a firewall can often be installed on commercially available hardware with standard operating systems and suitable software components. Therefore, they offer a high degree of flexibility and are well suited for many applications. However, the installation and integration of the required components can be faulty. Another disadvantage is that usually different contact persons for the individual components (eg hardware, operating system, software) have to be contacted for support requests.

Here are some advantages and disadvantages of appliances:

The reasons for deciding to use appliances as well as for the selection of specific devices should be documented.



## Examples 
* Configuration files from which information   can be taken about the network structure of the institution,
* Password files,
* Log files containing security-related information or personal information
* Certificates and cryptographic keys (eg for access to other IT systems)




