#M 4.97 One service per server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Many vulnerabilities in IT systems are individually not exploitable for a potential attacker. It is often possible to successfully penetrate a computer only by combining weak points. Depending on the threat situation and the protection requirements of the services, it may therefore be advisable to operate only one service on one computer. This mainly affects servers that also offer services on the Internet or in other foreign networks.

For example, the security level can be increased by operating both the web server and the e-mail server on stand-alone, dedicated computers that are designed as a minimum system (see also M4.95 Minimum Operating System).

In addition, individual services are also different in their security rating. Thus, a successful intrusion into a web server may be very annoying, especially if the attacker changes the externally available web pages. However, access to confidential information is usually not possible for the attacker. If the web server is the e-mail server at the same time, the attacker may be able to read the entire e-mail traffic, which may have much worse effects.

The distribution can be even further enhanced by distributing different tasks to different computers for a single service. For example, there might be an e-mail server A that accepts e-mail from the Internet and forwards it to the internal network, and another e-mail server B that forwards e-mail from the internal network to the Internet , Since the communication recording from the Internet is only possible with the E-Mailserver A, an attacker can attack even this directly. The e-mail server A itself is not allowed to send e-mails to the Internet, so this computer can not be misused for e-mail spamming.

A breakdown of different services on different computers has the following advantages, among others:

* Easier configuration of each computer
* Easier and safer configuration of an upstream packet filter
* Increased resistance to attack
* Increased reliability


By means of a suitable central system management, the additional administration effort, which results from the higher number of computers, can be limited.



## Examples 
* On virtualization servers with an operating system virtualization solution, only virtual IT systems with a role should typically be deployed. For example, on such a virtualization server, only web servers or exclusively mail servers, but not a mixture of these groups should be operated. However, with some OS virtualization products, the isolation of virtual IT systems is strong enough to deviate from this requirement.
* On virtualization servers with a server virtualization solution, it is usually permissible to operate virtual IT systems with different services. It is therefore possible for web servers and mail servers to be jointly provided on a virtualization server in separate virtual IT systems in each case.




