#M 4.468 Separation of private and professional areas on smartphones, tablets and PDAs
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

When smartphones, tablets or PDAs are used both privately and privately, both areas should be strictly separated. This is possible in different ways:

* In the simplest case, an application is installed on the devices that manages a data container with all official data and access. This application must be designed for all official activities, such as e-mail, appointments, contacts, tasks, have its own browser and automatically establish an encrypted connection to the institution. However, the separation between the different applications is done exclusively by the operating system. Therefore, the effectiveness of this separation depends on the operating system used and its access control capabilities (Mandatory Access Control, MAC) and thus varies from system to system. For the data container variant usually does not interfere with the operating system itself , It is available for different operating systems. Regardless of which manufacturer uses an application for the separation between private and official data, this should encrypt the official data in the container and thus, in the case of private use of the terminal, access to the data by others, if necessary b It may also be useful for theIT operation, in conjunction with security management, to create a blacklist of applications that have functions or rights that could endanger the information security of the business applications. In addition, users should be required to successfully authenticate before accessing the container. Connections to the institution's network must be cryptographically secured. Solutions that do not support this do not provide adequate protection and should not be used.


* Another way to separate private and business areas on terminal devices is to leave the information on the servers of the institution during processing. In this case, only a surface is provided on the client with which the application is operated on a server of the institution via a secure network connection. The corresponding program on the terminal must be configured so that the data can not be stored locally. Such thin clients or server-based solutions have long been used in the desktop sector as well. For a server-based solution to work, however, a sufficiently large Internet connection must be available at any time of use. Further, the service must be adapted to the constraints of a smartphone or tablet, for example touch-sensitive touch screen rather than mouse and keyboard.


* Another option is to operate the two areas as separate virtual machines on one device. In contrast to the data container variant, in the case of virtualization the private and official area is separated not at the application level but at the operating system level. This removes the interfaces that would otherwise be provided between the applications by the operating system with its existing access control mechanisms. A data exchange between both virtual machines is only possible via the deeper virtualization layer in the form of the hypervisor (also called Virtual Machine Monitor, VMM). In addition, separate applications can be installed in the individual virtual areas and operated separately from each other. Thus, the need of the user to install and use their own apps can be taken into account. An application exclusion list is usually not needed in this case because the applications work only in one virtual machine, so private applications can not access the data and applications in the service area.


Each institution must examine which of the solutions presented meets the protection needs of the information processed and is appropriate to the institution's security policy. In general, the following advantages or disadvantages should be included in the decision-making process:

* A virtualization solution with the appropriate quality of the hypervisor offers a higher degree of security than a container solution.
* A virtualization solution requires deep intervention in the operating system or even needs to be replaced. Many device manufacturers prohibit this and prohibit it with technical measures. As a rule, such an intervention in the operating system also voids the warranty on the device.
* A virtualization solution often increases the power consumption significantly, so that the battery discharges faster compared to a device without virtualization.
* A virtualization solution can not be implemented on all terminals because some device drivers are not available.
* Although a container solution offers less security than virtualization, it does not intervene as deeply in the operating system, so that the warranty for the device usually does not expire.
* In both the container and virtualization solutions, private data may inadvertently be included in data backups by the institution. As a result, the data protection officer usually needs to be involved in the implementation of this measure. With the virtualization solution, the unintentional collection of personal data is much less likely, as the separation between private and official services is more strictly implemented. In the case of the thin-client solution, however, this is ruled out since no official data is stored on the terminal and therefore does not need to be backed up.
* A thin-client solution requires a continuously available and adequately dimensioned Internet connection. This is not guaranteed nationwide in Germany, and data roaming generally generates high costs abroad. Short-term connection failures can affect the applications on the server and may even destroy data. In addition, the permanent data connection increases the power consumption significantly, which reduces the operating time until the next charge.




