#M 4.378 Restricting access to Mac OS X programs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

To restrict access to certain computer functions on Mac OS X, the Parental Controls can be used. Although this feature is referred to as Parental Controls or Parental Controls, their use may be useful in government or business environments. Through this parental control, found in the system settings, user accounts can be further restricted. Program access can also be further restricted with parental controls after removing all unneeded programs, as described in M 4.371 Configuring Mac OS X Clients in the Removing Unnecessary Programs section. Under certain circumstances, restrictions can be set more precisely.

For example, users may be restricted from accessing certain application programs, web pages or computer components. This procedure is also suitable for locking the Utilities directory, as it contains programs for the administration of the computer, which allow deeper insights into the system. If only access to certain websites or domains is to be allowed, access to a domain such as * .bund.de can be allowed under the menu item Content or Content. Furthermore, it is possible to allow e-mail communication only between predetermined partners.

A list of shared e-mail and iChat communication partners can be created under the menu item Mail & iChat. This setting avoids the flow of information through the Mail and iChat programs. It should be noted, however, that HTTP Webmailers can still be used to send e-mail to unauthorized persons. However, at present it is not possible to adapt the list of permitted communication partners by means of regular expressions. The login times for user accounts can be adjusted under the menu item Time Limits. For example, assuming that the main working time is between 7 am and 5 pm, the allowed user logon times should approximate these times.

Other available setting options, such as access to CD / DVD drives, should be kept as restrictive as possible. However, it should be noted that too much restriction can be a hindrance and a demotivating factor. Therefore, it should be clarified in advance by the head of IT and the IT security officer which restrictions should be implemented on which clients. This should be documented.

A central control of the client computer is also possible. If the option Manage child protection from another computer is activated in the system settings under Parental control, user accounts on remote computers can be restricted with parental control. This requires the username and password of an administrator on the IT system to be controlled. With these access data, the user rights on the IT system to be controlled can be restricted by the administering IT system, as described above.



