#M 4.115 Ensuring the power supply of mobile phones
Responsible for initiation: administrator, user

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Cellular phone batteries may power the device for a limited period of time, usually a few hours, depending on the capacity and design of the phone. In order to ensure that a mobile phone is available at all times, or that no data is lost in volatile memory, some boundary conditions should be observed:

* The warning indicators on the mobile phone indicating the voltage drop should not be ignored.
* If a longer term mobile use is foreseeable, a charger should be included. If no charger is available, the mobile phone may be charged via the data cable to an USB port of a PC or laptop. This usually takes much longer than with a charger. It should also be borne in mind that this form of charging also allows data connection and data flow or change.
* When charging, the instructions in the manual for the mobile phone should be observed, in particular, the life of the battery should not be affected.


* When handing over a mobile phone, make sure that the batteries are sufficiently charged. The charge level of the batteries should be checked regularly, as a battery discharges over time even when it is not in use.


If a longer use of the mobile phone is foreseeable, z. For example, on business trips, a charged spare battery may also be included. The replacement battery should be kept in a protective case, as damage may be caused by overheating or fire when the contacts of the battery come into contact with conductive materials. This can be caused by many items of everyday use such as keys or chains. If the batteries can not be replaced, eg. B. because this is permanently installed, it could also be used on external battery packs.

A mobile phone should be switched off before changing the battery so that the memory is not damaged.

A mobile phone should not be exposed to extreme temperatures. In particular, the battery, but also the display can otherwise einb  en their Funktionf higkeit. Since the temperature in cars can fluctuate greatly over night or while parking in the sun, neither mobile phones nor batteries in parked cars should be left behind.

In order to protect the battery of the mobile phone, Bluetooth, IrDA, WLAN, GPS, and mobile Internet connection should only be activated if necessary.



