#M 4.322 Blocking of unneeded VPN access
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

VPN access must be secured in such a way that only authorized users or IT systems can access it. For this purpose, access control procedures must be used at the VPN endpoints, which check whether a sender is authorized to communicate with the receiver. Proper functioning and configuration of these procedures should be checked at regular intervals. Forgotten accesses or user IDs of employees who have already left or rejected IT systems represent dangerous security gaps and must be blocked as soon as possible. Even unneces- sary VPN access from suppliers, partners and customers must be deactivated in a timely manner. After an access has been deleted, it must be checked whether the network can actually no longer be accessed.

If it is foreseeable that individual users of the VPN will be absent for a longer period of time or are not using it for other reasons (eg due to vacation, illness or other tasks), their user ID should be considered for this time on the VPN server, so that working under their user ID is no longer possible for this time. If possible, each user should provide the network administrator with longer periods of absence. If external parties such as customers or suppliers only need VPN access at certain times, the access authorizations for these phases should be restricted.

Efficient management of authorized users and IT systems, for example based on certificates, should be established and periodically reviewed and adapted. The access data and the assigned services must be protected against unauthorized access.



