#M 4.214 Disk management on z / OS systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

To ensure the protection of disks and volumes in z / OS systems, the following recommendations should be considered.



## Examples 
* The hard disks are to be protected by means of corresponding Resource Access Control Facility (RACF) profiles and RACF classes. It is necessary to create a profile in the RACF for the protection of the VTOC (Volume Table of Content) of the hard disk. Working with generic profiles - eg. B. VTOC. ** - is possible and to be considered.
* The master catalog is to be protected by a RACF profile, employees must be authorized with READ. Write access is only allowed to employees who really need it in the context of their work (eg when creating an ALIAS).
* To manage and maintain the overview of hard disks in the hard disk drives, a disk allocation plan is required. This disk mapping plan must contain at least the following information: hard disk address, hard drive name, name of the SMS disk pool to which the hard disk belongs (if SMS), and the name of the hard disk drive in which the disk was generated document.
* The programs for managing the hard disks (eg initializing, copying data, etc.) must be protected. The programs may only be executed by employees who need this authorization for their work. The usage of the attribute OPERATIONS by programs should be avoided, further information about this attribute can be found in M .2.289 Use of restrictive z / OS identifiers, if it is needed.
* The administration function of the Interactive Storage Management Facility (ISMF) must be protected by RACF profiles. Only authorized users may use these functionalities.
* z / OS commands that can be used to insert or remove disks and disks from the system are to be protected by means of corresponding RACF profiles. They may only be executed by authorized users (see also M 4.210 Secure operation of the z / OS operating system).
* The ACS (Automatic Class Selection) routines of the SMS (System Managed Storage) must be protected and may only be adapted by authorized users. There should be backup copies of the ACS files that can be restored in an emergency situation.




