#M 4.80 Secure access mechanisms for remote administration
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Many active network components can be remotely administered or monitored via network access. Access is either via connection-oriented or connectionless protocols. These include:

* Protocols for pure data transmission, for example, to transmit new firmware versions or configuration files, eg. B.FTP, TFTP (the latter is generally discouraged) or RCP (see also M 6.52 Regular backup of the configuration data of active network components),
* Protocols for interactive communication, e.g. B.SSH,
* Protocols for network management, eg. SNMP.


For secure remote administration of network components, note the following:

* Only secure protocols such as SSH or HTTPs may be used for interactive communication. Insecure protocols, such as Telnet or HTTP, may either not be used or may only be used in a dedicated administration network (out-of-band management).
* For interactive communication protocols, the auto-logout option of the network component should be enabled to block or terminate connections after a defined period of time without user activity.
* Also, for data transfer (backup of firmware versions or configuration files) only secure protocols, such as for example PCS, may be used. Insecure protocols such as TFTP, FTP or RCP may only be used in an isolated administration network.
* SNMP should only be used as of Version 3 (SNMPv3), since this is the only way to support stronger authentication and encryption. SNMP is used in an insecure version (SNMPv1 or SNMPv2), then only in conjunction with out-of-band management. SNMPv1 and SMMPv2 should never be used outside of isolated administration networks because they do not provide sufficient means to secure the communication.
* All standard passwords or community names of the network components must be exchanged for secure password or community names (see M 4.82 Secure configuration of the active network components). The coupling of community name and password affects the protocols FTTP, Telnet and SNMP for many active network components.
* Many components also provide the ability to restrict access to the management (management) interface based on MAC or IP addresses. As far as possible, this option should be used to allow access only from dedicated management stations.


For most of the protocols mentioned above, it should be noted that the transmission of the passwords or community names takes place in plain text, that is, it can be used in principle (see M 5.61 Suitable physical segmentation and M 5.62 Suitable logical segmentation).



