#M 4.133 Suitable selection of authentication mechanisms
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The identification and authentication mechanisms of IT systems or IT applications must be designed so that users are uniquely identified and authenticated. Identification and authentication must occur before any other interaction between the IT system and the user. Further interactions may only be possible after successful identification and authentication. The authentication information must be stored so that only authorized users have access to it (they can check or change). With every interaction, the IT system must be able to determine the identity of the user.

Before the transmission of user data, the communication partner (computer, process or user) must be uniquely identified and authenticated. Only after the successful identification and authentication a transmission of user data may take place. When receiving data, the sender must be clearly identified and authenticated. All authentication data must be protected against unauthorized access and falsification.

There are several techniques by which the authenticity of a user can be proved. The most well-known are:

* PINs (personal identification numbers)
* passwords
* Tokens such as B. access cards
* biometrics


Strong authentication should be used for safety-critical applications, combining two authentication techniques, such as password plus transaction numbers (one-time passwords) or plus smart card. Therefore, this is often referred to as two-factor authentication. Both authentication techniques used must be state-of-the-art.

In the following, various criteria are shown, which should be taken into account when selecting identification and authentication mechanisms. Not all marketable systems meet all the criteria, but these should be taken into account in the selection process. In addition to their actual functionality, many IT products already contain authentication mechanisms, such as operating systems. Here it is to be checked whether these satisfy the requirements or whether they have to be extended by additional functionalities. Also suitable for this are the following criteria.



## Examples 
* At least the first name and last name of a user should be included in the user administration. In addition, telephone and room numbers are also helpful.
* In addition, in order to contact the user, information such as e-mail address, telephone number and geographic location (address, room number) should also be recorded.
* In addition, it should be recorded how long the user ID should be valid. If the user ID has expired, it should be blocked.




