#M 4.423 Using the homegroup feature as of Windows 7
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

In Windows 7, the new function homegroup (English Homegroup) was introduced. It allows easy access to files (pictures, music, videos and documents) and printers of other IT systems in the local area network. Access to the data is grouped through the library function (summarizing files in different folders of the same type, such as music files, documents, picture files, or video files) from Windows 7.

It is possible to access an existing homegroup with all Windows 7 versions. The creation of a new homegroup is possible from the Home Premium version. Under Windows 8, there are no limitations. If the computer already belongs to a domain, you can join a homegroup, but you can not create such a group.

During the creation of a homegroup, a password is generated that must be entered on all IT systems that belong to the homegroup. Thereafter, the existing shares can be accessed. The password of the homegroup can be changed later. During the password change process, all homegroup IT systems must be turned on. Following this, the new password must be entered on each of these IT systems. Alternatively, the authentication can be done via existing user accounts of an IT system.

The homegroup is implemented on the basis of IPv6 via the Microsoft Peer Name Resolution Protocol (PNRP), as well as the use of the release functions and the user management of the operating system.

Each IT system can access the shared data of the other homegroup systems and share data with it. The prerequisite for the homegroup function is Home network as the location type of the network. On the IT systems of a homegroup, a new user group called HomeUsers (German: Homegroup, containing all local users of the computer) and the user HomeGroupUser $ is set up by default.



## Examples 
* Is there a policy for using homegroup functionality?
* Has Group Policy prevented the computer from joining the Home Network Group as configured by the policy?
* Have the users been trained in using homegroup releases?




