#M 4.276 Planning the use of Windows Server 2003
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Before the introduction of Windows Server 2003, extensive planning must be carried out in order to ensure a regulated and also secure introduction and, as a result, safe operation. It must be ensured that the defined security guidelines (see M 2.316 Defining a security policy for a general server) are adhered to and that a directive-compliant implementation takes place. It should be noted that Windows Server 2003 is available in the standard installation without pre-installed software components in order to avoid the operation of later unneeded components. Depending on the deployment scenario, you must define which server role Windows Server 2003 is planned for and which software components you may need to install additionally.

The questions and planning steps that arise in connection with the introduction or operation of Active Directory are only partially considered here.



## Examples 
* Is a new network being set up or is an existing network being migrated?
* Should an existing Windows network (eg based on Windows 2000 Server) be completely or only partially migrated to Windows Server 2003?
* Is this an additional server to be deployed or an existing server upgrade (see M 4.283 Secure Migration from Windows NT 4 Server and Windows 2000 Server to Windows Server 2003)?
* Which components, eg. As file servers, print servers, DNS servers are replaced, which remain?
* Must exist existing methods or components, such. An existing Kerberos system or an existing PKI, to be integrated into Windows Server 2003? Here are u. a. to consider the interoperability with other IT systems as well as the offered functional scope.
* Does the planned configuration of the server live up to the expected amount of data and peak load?
* Is the licensing model sufficient and suitable for the deployment concept and the emergency concept?
* Is a mixed operation of Windows Server 2003 and other operating systems, such as Windows 2000, Windows 95, Novell or Unix necessary? If this is the case, then this has u. a. Influence on the authentication methods used in the system, which, depending on the other operating systems used, also have weak points and can thus reduce the overall security of the Windows Server 2003 environment. The security standard in the mixed environment should be set in a security policy.




