#M 4.411 Secure use of DirectAccess on Windows
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Since Windows 7 and Server 2008 R2, DirectAccess integrates a VPN technology into the operating system. It aims to simplify remote access to resources on the local network and allow users to use their clients anywhere as if they were connected directly to the LAN.

In order to achieve this, DirectAccess establishes an IPSec tunnel to a remote station based on Windows Server 2008 R2 in the LAN without user intervention and prior to logging on to the operating system. It should be noted that only the two Enterprise and Ultimate versions of Windows 7 are able to access resources shared by a DirectAccess server running Windows Server 2008 R2.

Central infrastructure components such as Active Directory and DNS can be reached via this remote site (Infrastructure Tunnel). For this first tunnel, only the computer account of the client computer is used for authentication, that is, this tunnel is in principle open to an attacker who gains unauthorized access to the client system.

After the user has logged in, a second IPSec tunnel will be set up to access further internal resources (intranet tunnel).

When setting up DirectAccess access, there are several configuration options:

* Full Internet Access: In this scenario, systems connected via DirectAccess have unrestricted access to all resources on the intranet.
* Selected servers: Systems connected via DirectAccess only have access to selected servers on the intranet.
* End-to-end: If the system connected via DirectAccess is to access a server on the intranet, for example for a specific internal application, the IPSec encrypted channel can be run from the client to the destination server. In this way, not only the access from the outside, but also the transport through the LAN is secured.


It should be noted that the computers in the internal network in DirectAccess can only be addressed via IPv6. Systems that can only be reached in the internal network via IPv4 are not accessible with DirectAccess. The limitation can be circumvented with NAT64 or proxies, but this can lead to problems with applications.

This limitation does not apply to communication between the external DirectAccess client and Gateway. Numerous options are implemented here in order to implement the required IPv6 connection via an existing IPv4 connection so that there are no increased requirements for the connection of the client. The DirectAccess client checks the existing connectivity options and automatically selects an appropriate protocol.

DirectAccess can be configured either through the DirectAccess Management Console provided or through the Network Shell command line tool and GPOs.

In particular, in the full intranet deployment scenario, DirectAccess provides critical access to the internal network. This access requires special security measures. It is possible to require a certain level of authentication security for the DirectAccess access, for example on the basis of a chip card with PIN (two-factor authentication). This limitation should be used when using DirectAccess.

Furthermore, it is important that the tunnel is built into the internal network only if the connected system is in the possession of a legitimate user. For this reason, such systems should be provided with hard disk encryption (for example, according to M.4.337 Use of BitLocker Drive Encryption) and have an automatic blocking if the user is inactive (see M 4.2 Screen lock).

When accessing the internal network of mobile systems, there is always an increased risk of malware infections as the mobile systems could potentially be infected. To test at least basic security features of the terminal before allowing a connection via DirectAccess, the DirectAccess access can be provided with a network access protection check (see M 4.410 Using Network Access Protection under Windows).

The DirectAccess server must be accessible from the outside for the clients and therefore represents a possible point of attack on the interneIT network. For its integration into the network, M 4.224 integration of VPN components into is Note security gateway. It should be noted that the DirectAccess server must be a member of the Windows domain.

By default, DirectAccess clients share their traffic to the intranet and their traffic to the Internet. While connections to resources on the intranet are automatically routed through the DirectAccess tunnel, the client system establishes connections to the Internet directly outside and outside the tunnel. This behavior is intended to relieve the internal network and the tunnel of traffic.

However, in this scenario, the DirectAccess client can also be a network transition point that an attacker uses to gain access to the internal network from the Internet through the client. At the same time, the Internet connections established directly by the client are not protected by any existing central security facilities, such as proxy servers with content filtering.

For the above reasons, unlike the default setting, all traffic from the client should be routed through the DirectAccess tunnel (force tunneling). This ensures controlled and secure Internet access via the existing security devices and prevents back-entry into the internal network.



