#M 4.154 Secure installation of the Novell eDirectory client software
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

After planning an eDirectory system (see M 2.236 Planning to use Novell eDirectory) and installing the eDirectory servers (see M 4.153 Secure Installation of Novell eDirectory), the eDirectory client software must be installed on the relevant computers. During the installation phase, the eDirectory client software is not yet fully configured so that the desired security settings are not yet activated. It is therefore advisable to carry out the initial configuration either in a protected environment or alternatively to play a prepared standard configuration.

Of course, the installation of the eDirectory client software does not take place independently of the eDirectory servers. The installation can only be considered completed once the server connection has been made.

Already during the installation of the eDirectory client software, security-relevant aspects have to be considered. In general, a standard installation does not meet the applicable security requirements, so it should be followed immediately by a secure configuration of the software.

Depending on the operating system used, there are various client software: Windows (the Novell Client), Linux and Sun Solaris. After successful installation, the user will see the input screen for the eDirectory login (under Windows the Novell Client):



The installation is not limited to the client software, but usually affects the underlying operating systems as well. Again, the installation process can not be considered complete until a secure configuration is made immediately after the OS installation. Recommendations for safe installation and configuration of the operating system can be found in the corresponding blocks.

For each module, a secure installation configuration must be set up to prevent access while the computer is in the initial configuration phase and until the specified security policies have been implemented. Further recommendations can be found in M 4.156 Secure Configuration of the Novell eDirectory Client Software.



