#M 4.433 Use of disk encryption
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Confidential information on rewritable data carriers can be encrypted in various ways and thus protected against unauthorized access. For example, the entire volume, a single partition, or just individual files can be encrypted. From a security point of view, it is better to encrypt the entire data carrier, because then less user intervention is required and all data is protected against unauthorized access. Encrypting an entire volume or partition is almost transparent to users. Only when booting or the first access to the partition, the user must authenticate. If only individual files or file containers are encrypted, there is a risk that accidentally sensitive data will be stored in unencrypted areas of the hard disk. In addition, a encryption program must be explicitly started by the users for this purpose.

Even if individual partitions are completely encrypted, this can lead to confidential information ending up on unencrypted partitions for various reasons. Therefore, complete encryption of data media is the best and most efficient way to reliably protect sensitive data from unauthorized access.

Disk Encryption can be implemented with software, but also with hardware support. Software solutions are z. B. BitLocker from Microsoft (see M 4.337 Use of BitLocker Drive Encryption) or theBSI for the processing of data up to the secrecy levelVS-ONLY for the SERVICE USE-approved TrustedDisk.

Mobile data carriers such as USB sticks and laptops should always be completely encrypted, even if they are occasionally used for confidential information. In the case of stationary IT systems, the data carriers should be completely encrypted with regard to confidentiality in the case of high protection requirements. When encrypting server hard drives, it should be checked whether the chosen encryption variant is sufficiently powerful for the number of user accesses.

In addition to the encryption program itself, cryptographic keys are needed for encryption. The cryptographic keys should be securely generated and kept separate from the encrypted data carrier in accordance with the M 2.46 Appropriate Key Management feature. For example, smart cards or USB tokens can be used for this purpose. Such a separation is usually not possible when encrypting USB sticks, which should be taken into account in the security analysis.

Of course, the data stored on the encrypted data carriers must also be backed up regularly (see M 6.56 Data backup when using cryptographic methods).

Some disk or partition encryption programs, or the use of encrypted file containers, provide the ability to hide the encrypted areas. Since such functions are difficult to apply and misoperation may result in complete data loss, they should not be used.



