#M 4.460 Use of Federation Services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, specialist responsible, IT security officer

An essential feature of Federation Services is the separation between authentication and authorization. For federation services the so-called identity provider and the service provider play an essential role. The identity provider takes over the authentication of the user, the authorization takes place at the service provider. An explicit trust relationship must be established between the identity provider and the service provider.

The use of federation services provides a way to secure cloud usage by securely transferring claims tokens (verified, centrally issued statements on a user's identity), often called authentication tokens. The user information (for example, user name) or other information for identifying an employee can also be transmitted securely across company boundaries.

Only through the described trust relationship can it be ensured that the service provider accepts the claims tokens issued by the identity provider. If federation services are to be used, the institution as the cloud user assumes the role of the identity provider.

Employees who want to use a cloud service first log in to the central directory service and then receive a ticket (for example, Kerberos ticket) with which they can authenticate themselves for specified services , The request to use a particular cloud service is subsequently converted by the federation server of the serving institution into a so-called SAML ticket.

SAML stands for Security Assertion Markup Language and sets a standard for the design of tokens. The token generated in this way is transmitted to the federation server of the cloud service provider. This unpacks the SAML ticket, verifies the signature of the federation server of the cloud user and forwards the content to the application. When using Federation Services, SAML should be used from version 2.0.

Since the institution acts as an identity provider as described, the responsibility for the proper authentication of the users is transferred to them. The responsible persons within the using institution must ensure that only a legitimate user is issued a SAML ticket. The extended authorizations that are transferred to the application after successful authentication should also be carefully defined and regularly checked. Users should only be assigned permissions that they actually need to perform their tasks.

Taking responsibility for authenticating their users while using cloud services also brings a number of benefits to the hosting institution. For example, the implementation of an institution-wide password policy is possible, regardless of possibly different specifications of the cloud service provider. In addition, the sovereignty over the assignment of rights lies solely with the using institution. With careful configuration of the central directory service, unauthorized access, for example by former employees, can be effectively ruled out, without having to rely on the involvement of the cloud service provider.

Because of these benefits to the serving institution and the ability to simplify the delivery of services by the cloud service provider, federation services are therefore already being supported to a large extent by cloud services.

If federation services are to be used in a cloud usage project, this has to be taken into account during the contract negotiations with the cloud service provider (see measure M 2.541 Contract design with the cloud service provider). In general, the cloud service provider additionally provides the using institution with information regarding necessary configuration parameters for its federation server. When determining the configuration parameters and the information to be transmitted in the SAML ticket, the institution should ensure that, as far as possible, only the required information is transmitted to the cloud service provider. Comprehensive replication of far-reaching and unnecessary directory service information, such as telephone numbers, should be avoided.



