#M 4.204 Secure administration of routers and switches
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

There are different ways to administer routers and switches. Depending on the type of access used, a number of security precautions must be taken. For larger networks, it is recommended to integrate routers and switches in a central network management system, since otherwise a secure and efficient administration can practically not be guaranteed.

The methods used for administration should be specified in the security policy, and administration should be performed only in accordance with the security policy. All unused administration interfaces should be disabled. The following describes some points that should be considered during the administration.

In addition, if possible, administration access should be restricted by setting up access control lists (ACLs) (see also M 5.111 Setting up access control lists on routers).



## Examples 
* A read-only account is used to view the settings of the device. Changes to the configuration are not possible.
* The read-write account allows you to change and view most of the settings of the device, security and password settings are not included.
* The Read-Write-All Account is designed for comprehensive control including security settings, access passwords, and Web-based management access.
* In addition, special accounts for the management of Layer 2 and Layer 3 functions are possible.




