#M 4.30 Use of the security features offered in application programs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

Some of the standard PC-based products provide a number of useful security features that may differ in their specifics, but can interfere with or reduce potential damage to unauthorized persons. In the following, five of these functions are briefly explained:

* Password protection at program call: the program can only be started if a password has been entered correctly before. This prevents the unauthorized use of the program.
* Access protection to individual files: the program can only access a protected file if the password associated with this file is entered correctly. This prevents the unauthorized access by the program to certain files.
* Automatic storage of intermediate results: the program automatically saves intermediate results, so that a power failure only affects the data changes that occurred after this automatic saving.
* Automatic backup of the predecessor file: If a file is saved for which a file with the same name exists in the specified path, the second file is not deleted but provided with a different identifier. This prevents accidentally deleting a file with the same name.
* Encryption of files: the program is able to save a file encrypted, so that unauthorized knowledge can be prevented. The contents of the file are thus accessible only to those who have the secret cryptographic key used.
* Automatically display macros in files: this function is intended to prevent the unintentional execution of macros (macro viruses).


Depending on the software used and the additional security functions available, the use of these functions may make sense. For mobile IT systems, the use of password protection when calling a program and automatic storage are particularly useful.

* Are the safety-relevant instructions in manuals or certification reports observed?




