#M 4.491 Prevent debugging of embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, developer

Common approaches for debugging embedded systems include in-circuit emulation (ICE) and on-chip debugging (OCD) .ICE devices replace the actual controller on the target system with hardware that incorporates the necessary analysis capabilities. The target system used later does not have these additional functions and thus does not provide any unwanted debugging options. Due to time, technical or financial constraints, however, OCD is increasingly being used. Debugging options are implemented on the serial blocks themselves. OCD can thus intervene in the program flow, z. For example, to read values ??from registers or a trace memory, or to run additional small monitoring programs that collect debug information and output it to the outside.

For embedded systems, the software under test is usually not on the same machine as the debugger. Therefore, remote debugging is used. h.the developer starts on the embedded system an application with which the debugger on the development systemz. Eg via Ethernet or RS232.

Wirdz. For example, if the GNU Debuggers (GDB) is being used, the embedded system will run a GDB server that logs in to the GDB client on the development system. The client or programmer passes instructions to the server on the embedded system to examine the application. The server implements the instructions and sends the results back to the development system.

As far as possible, the tools for hardware and software development in the system or the software for debugging must be completely removed from the design for the series. From the production code of software all code elements are to be removed, which are not part of the system functionality. In addition count. B. breakpoints and unused code. When using on-chip debugging, ensure that debugging functions can not be used or activated by unauthorized persons. In the field of hardware, it must be ensured that no input interfaces for test signals and measuring points for connecting analyzers are activated or can be used by unauthorized persons.



