#M 4.469 Defense of inserted GSM codes on terminals with telephone function
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

The amount of GSM codes and their function varies by manufacturer for each terminal. In general, however, GSM codes can not be turned off in general. The following recommendations must be implemented so that GSM codes are not introduced without authorization on terminals with a telephone function.

To prevent an attacker from entering GSM code directly on the terminal, the terminal should never be left unattended. In addition, the code lock must be active.

In order to prevent Gsm-codes from websites on the internet from being executed on the terminal, programs must be installed which locally search the visited websites and filter out corresponding GSM codes. There are corresponding applications on the market. This filtering feature is often integrated with antivirus software for smartphones, tablets and PDAs.

To prevent GSM signals from being injected via the Near Field Communication (NFC) interface or over QR code, the applications on the terminal must be configured to receive the over NFC or from QR code Do not immediately interpret and execute data, but first inform the user of the contents of the data received and have the data confirmed by him. Users need to be made aware that they are actually testing every request and always rejecting GSM codes. To do this, you must be taught that a GSM code starts with tel: and a URL with HTTP: // or HTTPS: //.



