#M 4.265 Secure configuration of batch processing in the SAP system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

As part of background processing (batch processing), processes (batch jobs) are usually carried out automatically. In addition, work can be time-controlled. The following must be considered in the configuration:

* Batch jobs are controlled by transaction SM36. Only authorized batch administrators should have access to this transaction.
* The following authorization objects are used to manage the batch processing. The assignment of the authorizations is generally to be regulated via the authorization concept. The expression of the authorization object S_BTCH_ADM with value Y allows full access to the batch administration. It should be noted that no further restrictions can be made. A user with this authorization can always execute all administrative operations and may only be assigned to a few administrators (for example, batch administrator, proxy). The expression of the authorization object S_BTCH_JOB with the value LIST enables a batch administrator to display the spool requests generated by batch jobs. Since this contains the output data of the batch job, it must be decided within the scope of the authorization concept under which circumstances and by whom this authorization may be used. Users can always own their own jobs without having to have special authorizations create and manage. The following authorization objects can be used for special operations that are not possible without the authorization: S_BTCH_JOB: Allows the following, depending on the value setting: Value DELE: Delete other user's jobsValue LIST: Display spool requestsValue PROT: Viewing job logs, even for other usersValue SHOW: Show job detailsValue RELE: Sharing other user's jobsBecause the operations involved are critical operations, their use must be carefully planned. Typically, these permissions should not be granted to normal users. S_BTCH_NAM: A user can run batch jobs under the permissions of another user. The users under which the batch job can be executed must be specified in the authorization. The assignment of the authorization is to be regarded as critical from a security point of view and only meaningful for batch administrators, for example, to run batch jobs under technical users.
* Because batch processing is done in the background and automatically, it usually takes place unnoticed. Impacts caused by unauthorized changes to batch processing can therefore go unnoticed for a long time. A restrictive authorization assignment is therefore necessary.
* Background processing is typically performed under the privileges of the user creating a batch job. As a result, the configured permissions of the user are used.
* If batch jobs are executed under the authorizations of technical users, then the authorizations of the technical users are to be restricted. It is not recommended to equip a technical batch user with the profile SAP_ALL.
* Access to batch processing should only be available to authorized administrators.
* Batch processing can be used to generate load on an SAP system. It must therefore be decided whether normal users may start batch jobs or whether these will be released and scheduled by the batch administrator after the batch job has been created by the user.


Notes on SAP documentation for batch processing can be found in M 2.346 Using the SAP documentation.



