#M 4.345 Protection against unwanted information outflows
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Confidential information should not fall into the wrong hands. To prevent this, a variety of organizational or technical measures can be taken. Many of them have the disadvantage that they seriously affect the workflows or that they protect some interfaces externally, but not all.

One solution to better manage the outflow of confidential information is to control the flow of data in the network and / or on terminals. They should recognize or even intervene when confidential information is transmitted through insecure ways or gets into the wrong hands. Such tools check, for example, whether certain information should be transmitted by e-mail, data exchange or Internet use or whether they should be burnt to CD or copied to a USB stick. The terms Data Loss Prevention (DLP), Information Leakage Prevention (ILP) or Extrusion Prevention are used to denote such tools, but the goals and mechanisms are comparable.

Such systems distinguish between confidential and uncritical information. While uncritical files can be sent by e-mail, confidential files could block e-mail transmission and copying to portable media such as USB sticks. Some DLP tools can even prevent individual contents of one file from being copied to another file.

There are currently two different technical approaches for DLP tools. Some try to use a device or appliance on the network to detect and respond to sensitive content in the data stream. The others need an agent on all devices involved to control the movement and processing of sensitive files. Analogous to the intrusion detection area, DLP is also referred to as network-based and host-based approaches.



## Examples 
* Display an indication to the user that the scheduled transaction would violate the policy
* Query explicit consent of the user
* Blockade of the action
* logging
* Information from third parties, eg An administrator or supervisor




