#M 4.464 Maintaining safety during ongoing application operation
Responsible for initiation: specialist responsible, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible, IT manager

During the operation of an application or a specialized procedure it should be ensured that the users are adequately supported with questions and problems. This can be done, for example, via the IT operation, for example via the provision of an IT contact person or a so-called service or user help desk (SD / UHD).

In addition, the users should also be suitably supported with regard to technical aspects. This can be done by a key user or a so-called technical control center. These organize the introduction and training of new users, assist in the correct operation of the application, and record requirements for future versions of the application.

An important aspect of the security of an application during operation is the appropriate assignment of access rights (see M 2.8 Assignment of access rights) and the up-to-date documentation of approved users and rights profiles (see M 2.31 Authorized User and Rights Profile Documentation). The correctness of assigned permissions should be checked regularly.

It is important to ensure that the log data of the application is evaluated regularly (see M 2.64 Control of log files). In doing so, the respectively applicable specific statutory and contractual requirements regarding storage periods for log files, their accessibility by third parties (eg supervisory authorities) and specifications for evaluation must be observed.

Typically, in the current application mode there is the need to adapt the application functionally, to eliminate errors or to close security gaps. When implementing the patch and change management, the specifications of block B 1.14 Patch and change management must be taken into account. In particular, it must be ensured that

* safety-critical patches and updates are updated promptly (see M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates),
* Configuration changes, including patches and updates, have previously been suitably tested, approved (see M 2.556 Planning and Implementation of Test and Release of Applications) and carried out carefully (see M 4.78 Careful Carrying out of Configuration  changes), and
* Configuration changes can be suitably documented (see M 4.463 Secure installation of an application).


Furthermore, it must be ensured that data backups are carried out as planned (see M 6.33 Development of a data protection concept) and that a recovery of the application from the existing data backups is possible successfully (see M 6.41 Data reconstruction exercises). For this purpose, the type and scope of the data backups must be defined, and there may be different procedures for data backup for the various components, for example for source code, configuration data, protocol data and content data.

Applications developed by third parties may require license management in order to prevent copyright infringement. Likewise, to ensure trouble-free operation, it makes sense to use uniform versions of the applications at all workplaces of an institution (see M 2.88 License Management and Version Control of Standard Software).



