#M 4.418 Planning the use of Windows Server 2008
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The increased distinction between roles during the installation phase adds even more importance to the planning phase prior to using Windows Server 2008 than was the case with earlier versions of Windows. For example, the role of the Server Core can only be selected during the installation; a subsequent change is not possible for this role. Therefore, the selected roles and features must be tailored to meet the requirements of the planned deployment of the Windows Server 2008 system.

Building on M 2.315 server deployment planning and M 4.409 Procurement of Windows Server 2008, the following action describes the key aspects of the planning phase to consider before deploying a Windows Server 2008.



## Examples 
* Is a new network being set up or is an existing network being migrated?
* For example, should an existing Windows network be completely or partially migrated to Windows Server 2008 based on Windows 2000 Server or Windows Server 2003? Migration of Windows NT systems to Windows Server 2008 systems is not directly possible.
* Is this an additional server to install or upgrade an existing server?
* Which components, such as file servers, print servers, or DNS servers are replaced, which are retained?
* Do existing procedures or components, such as an existing Kerberos system or an existing PKI in Windows Server 2008, have to be integrated? Among other things, interoperability with other IT systems and the range of functions offered here must be taken into account.
* Does the planned configuration of the server live up to the expected amount of data and peak load?
* Is the licensing model sufficient and suitable for the deployment concept and the emergency concept?
* Is a mixed operation of Windows Server 2008 and other operating systems, such as Windows 2000 or 2003, Novell or Unix necessary? This can have an impact on the authentication methods used in the system, which, depending on the operating systems used, can also have weak points, thus reducing the overall security of the Windows Server 2008 environment. The necessary security requirements for such a mixed environment should be defined in a security policy.




