#M 4.497 Secure installation of a network management system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The installation of a network management system requires extensive and careful planning. After network analysis (see M 2.140 Analysis of the current network situation), definition of the network management concept (see M 2.143 Development of a network management concept) and selection of a suitable network management system (see M 2.171 Appropriate selection of a system management product) the installation of the product is planned in detail and implemented accordingly. Depending on the underlying architecture of the management product, a configuration of the network management system is to be created for the local network, which takes into account the formulated network management concept.

Often, database systems must be installed on the central computers, in which the management information is stored persistently by the management software. Depending on the product, the integration of an existing database system is possible here. The management software should use a dedicated, high-performance IT system.

In addition to these criteria, which are essentially intended to guarantee the controlled technical operation of the system, from a security point of view, the software and the corresponding data belonging to the management system are included in the protection requirements according to basic protection (see BSI Standard 100-2 IT-Grundschutz Approach). Compromising the network management system can result in the failure of the entire network. Unrecognized changes to the system can also cause considerable damage, which can also take on forms that threaten one's existence. If the protection requirements of the network management information are classified as high or very high, an additional safety analysis and, if necessary, a risk analysis must be performed.

In particular, the following points should be noted during installation:

* All computers on which management information is stored must be specially secured:
* The actions of the building blocks from layer  3, depending on the existing system, are to be carried out.
* Access to the management software is only permitted to authorized administrators and auditors.
* Access to the computers should be restricted.
* Communication between the management components should be encrypted to prevent management information from being heard and collected. If the product does not support encryption, special measures must be taken to secure the communication (see M 5.68 Use of encryption procedures for network communication or M 2.579 Regular audits of the local networkStructure a management network ). The management software must be integrated into the data protection concept.




