#M 4.173 Regular function and recovery tests during archiving
Responsible for initiation: archive administrator, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, archive administrator, IT manager

Various causes in the areas of data carriers, hardware and program execution can lead to data losses during archiving. Regular functional and recovery tests are therefore indispensable.

Like all other archiving components, data carriers are subject to wear and tear and should therefore be checked at least once a year for readability and integrity.

If errors are detected on an archive medium, it must be ensured immediately that the affected files are restored from the backup inventory. If erroneous archive data carriers have to be exchanged, they must be securely deleted or destroyed after the copy of the data contained on them (see also M 2.167 Selection of suitable methods for deletion or destruction of data). The entire process must be documented.

All hardware components, in particular the mechanical parts of the archive, must be regularly checked for proper function. Only in this way can it be ensured that archived data records meet the required availability requirements and that data integrity is ensured when writing and reading the data.

The archiving process itself may be incorrect. Possible causes include: configuration errors, software malfunctions (for example, when using new programs), problems with the storage media, or changes and errors in the flow control. Once a day, therefore, it must be checked whether all archiving processes have run without errors. This can be done by evaluating log files as well as a random view of the created archive media by the administrator.

The necessary integrity checks of the index database are described in measure M 4.171 Protection of the Integrity of the Index Database of Archive Systems.



