#M 4.349 Secure operation of virtual infrastructures
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Virtualization servers typically run multiple virtual IT systems. Because each virtual IT system is all based on this infrastructure, a failure on an infrastructure system, such as a virtualization server, can affect all virtual IT systems running on that system.

Here are some hints that should be considered for the secure operation of virtualization servers or virtual infrastructure. Recommendations regarding the virtualization server itself, which do not concern the aspect of virtualization and are among the principles of server operation, are described in the actions of the B 3.101 General Server block.

Administrationszugnge

Virtualization servers have capabilities to control, maintain, and monitor the virtual IT systems running on them. These administrative functions can usually be used either locally on the virtualization server itself or over the network from the workstation of an administrator. These are either web-based administration interfaces on the virtualization server or a special administration software wiez. B.VMware vSphere Client.

In addition, some virtualization solutions provide the ability to manage multiple virtualization servers and all virtual IT systems running on them from one centralized system (eg Citrix XenCenter, Microsoft System Center Virtual Machine Manager, SUN Management Center, VMware vCenter ).

The corresponding network interfaces of the virtualization server or of the central administration system allow complete access to the virtualization servers and the virtual IT systems. For this reason, the administration interfaces must be protected. For this, the measure M 5.154 Secure configuration of a network for virtual infrastructures has to be taken into account.



## Examples 
* the creation, deletion of snapshots.
* the monitoring of the operating status of the virtualization server and the virtual IT systems.
* the examination of the utilization of resources.
* Checking that sufficient processor resources are available to meet the performance needs of virtual IT systems.
* Checking whether there are main memory gaps that threaten the availability of virtual IT systems.
* Checking whether there is sufficient mass storage (hard disk space or allocated and total capacity in the storage network) is available.
* Checking for network bandwidth bottlenecks.
* the testing of the connections to the physical networks.
* the integrity check of the configuration of the virtualization server and the virtual IT systems (see also M 2.449 Minimum use of console access to virtual IT systems, M 4.93 Regular integrity check and M 5.8 Regular security check of the network)




