#M 4.160 Monitor Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT manager, auditor

In order to understand the safety status of a system, it is necessary to continuously monitor it. The aim of such monitoring is to detect violations of the applicable safety regulations, to detect existing security gaps or to detect misconfigurations that can lead to security gaps. A corresponding monitoring concept is also to be regarded as part of the security concept.

As a rule, complex systems such as eDirectory can no longer be monitored by individual administrators, but the control must be carried out automatically by appropriate system components or products from third-party manufacturers. The configuration of the system monitoring must be regularly adapted to the changing system.

eDirectory provides the iMonitor tool for system monitoring. This is a client-server application that runs the iMonitor service on some (or all) eDirectory servers. The clients can access it via a browser, which must support HTML version 3. The accessing person must authenticate himself to the iMonitor services and, after successful recognition, accesses the iMonitor data with the rights configured for him.

The information that the iMonitor service provides through an eDirectory server might be known. used by unauthorized persons to search for security gaps in an existing eDirectory installation. For this reason, it is recommended to allow access to the iMonitor service only with SSL encryption enabled, especially if it is accessible from outside your own office or enterprise network. To do this, the corresponding server certificate must be imported into the browser on the client.

There are two modes of operation for iMonitor access: direct mode and proxy mode. In direct mode, the browser is connected directly to the eDirectory server, whose status data is queried. The iMonitor services must be activated on the eDirectory server. Proxy mode accesses a server that has iMonitor services available, but the actual information is queried by another server.

The direct mode has u. a over the proxy mode. The advantage is that it requires less bandwidth and the server-centered functionality is fully available. From the point of view of information security, however, the proxy mode is to be preferred, so that not all eDirectory computers allow this direct accessibility. In this case, a fixed dial-in address should be used, which must then be appropriately controlled and protected.

The NDS Trace Utility is used to capture eDirectory-specific events into its own log file. This allows logging of all eDirectory events. There is also the add-on module NAAS (Novell Advanced Auditing Service), which enables automated evaluation of eDirectory-specific events.

As part of the monitoring, the following aspects should also be considered:

* The data protection officer and the staff or works council should be involved early in the planning, since a monitoring usually also has to collect personal data, so that in the case of a security breach reliably the causer can be determined.
* In addition to the eDirectory-specific events, events of the operating system must also be monitored and logged in order to obtain a more complete picture of the system processes. Recommendations and notes on logging at operating system level can be found in the respective blocks.


* A central collection point for log files with correspondingly automated evaluation can be set up by third-party products. If a tool for network and system management is used (see also module B 4.2 Network and system management), it is possible - depending on the product - to integrate the eDirectory protocols directly into this tool.


* Due to the monitoring, large amounts of data accumulate depending on the setting. These must not only be evaluated regularly, but also deleted for space reasons or outsourced to other data carriers. In addition, an intensive monitoring u. U. to performance losses. As a result, a server may be overloaded in such a way that controlled operation is no longer possible. For this reason, the appropriate monitoring parameters must be checked during a test operation and adjusted if necessary. It should be noted that the adaptation can also influence the entire monitoring concept, as certain monitoring tasks may be necessary. U. are no longer feasible. This is especially true if additional products are used which place high requirements on the logged events. Examples include programs that automatically analyze log data for behavioral anomalies, such as attack detection.


As part of the monitoring of the system functions, it is also advisable to regularly monitor eDirectory replication, which will forward configuration changes. Errors in replication usually mean that configuration changes are not carried out everywhere and so, for example. too many rights are granted to a user.



