#M 4.367 Secure use of client applications for terminal servers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Terminal server services are often provided via client systems with a stand-alone operating system (fat client). In such an environment, the user often has the potential to modify the configuration or the client software. This can then reduce the security of his own connection or reveal details about the internal structure of the information network to unauthorized third parties.

To prevent this, all possible connection parameters, such as the encryption depth and the procedure, should be specified administratively on the server side. Information channels, such as the integration of local drives, printers, interfaces or the clipboard should also be controlled in this way. However, this is not always possible within the Terminal Server solution used centrally, user-related and for all settings, and the requirements of the users may vary.

In terminal server environments with normal protection requirements, it should be specified in the user guidelines that the user may under no circumstances send configuration data, for example from .ICA or .RDP files, to unauthorized persons. In addition, no default settings may be changed or access to different server addresses may be tried out. Further guidance on designing appropriate policies can be found in the M 2.464 Creating a Terminal Server Usage Security Policy. In information networks with high and very high protection requirements, these organizational definitions alone are insufficient.

A possible alternative here is the use of non-configurable client programs, such as the so-called Gray version of the Citrix Program Neighborhood. In this case, the client on which the terminal software is provided must be under full control the IT administration stands. In addition, a write access to the files of the client software must be effectively prevented.

However, not suitable for this process are developer systems in which, for. B. using software analysis tools (debuggers) or network monitors (sniffers) the connection setup can be monitored or manipulated. In particular, an automatic authentication (pass-through authentication) can be broken so easily.

If the local installation of the terminal software and its configuration on the computers of the users are omitted, the above-mentioned safety shortcomings can be avoided. This is made possible by the use of portal solutions, such as:

* Microsoft Terminal Server Web Access
* Citrix Access Gateway
* NX-Builder for X-Window Systems


For user authentication against porting via an insecure network, it is recommended to use two-factor authentication.

Even with the delivery of client software for terminal servers via web servers, restrictive specifications for the configurability of the client are usually not standard. They must therefore be set administratively prior to commissioning the terminal server environment. For the portal, the corresponding measures from module B 5.4 Web server must also be taken into account.



