#M 4.482 Hardware realization of functions of embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: planner, developer, procurer

When designing an embedded system, it determines which functions should run on a programmable processor and which should be implemented immediately in hardware. The potential bandwidth in hardware software partitioning is large. At one end of the scale are universal programmable general purpose processors (GPPs), as they are also used in the field of workstations. On the other are highly specialized digital hardware systems which execute only one program (single-purpose processor, SPP). A middle ground between fully programmable processors and pure hardware implementations are programmable processor-specific application specific instruction set processor (ASIP) processor arrays. These are processors whose instruction set is specific to certain types of applications, e.g. B.Digitale signal processing or control functions has been optimized.

Also with the hardware implementations there are different gradations. In the options to implement integrated circuits, the bandwidth of chips individually designed and manufactured for specific customers (Application Specific Integrated Circuit, ASIC) extends to chips that are designed for specific tasks, but so on Generally speaking, they can be used in a variety of different products (Application Specific Standard Product, ASSP). In addition, some mixed forms wiez. Customer-specific standard products (CSSP), chips with some pre-implemented elements (English: structured ASIC) and chips with a predefined area and an area free for customer configurations (platform ASIC) ).

Widely used, especially for prototype development, are programmable ASICs. The most important representatives of this technology are Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) and Complex Programmable Logic Device (CPLD). Both are integrated circuits in which a logic circuit can be programmed, which means that the functional structure of the circuit is defined, not that time sequences are defined. CPLDs have a much simpler structure compared to FPGAs. They do not have a fine-meshed array of logic blocks and flip-flops, but only a configurable switch matrix that can connect different input signals to different output signals. A CPLD is ready for use immediately after power up, as well as a single programmable FPGA. Reconfigurable FPGAs with static random-access memory (SRAM) -based cells need a single charge cycle for the configuration. FPGA devices are larger than CPLD devices and have higher power consumption.

Programmable logic devices can be programmed outside the target system or, if the corresponding interfaces are present, within the target system. They are often used to develop a prototype. In the productive system, they are usually replaced by ASICs. A further development represent reconfigurable ASICs, which can be reprogrammed during runtime to adapt to current requirements.

The different security features of software or hardware implementations should be considered when designing an embedded system and must be reconciled with the respective security requirements. Hardwired algorithms, eg. As ASIC or FPGA, on the one hand counteract higher functionality than typical software-based implementations for a manipulation of functionality, on the other hand they are less flexible and generally do not allow any subsequent integration of additional security mechanisms. However, if the security mechanisms are involved in the development of the hardware right from the start, they can be implemented efficiently. Even parallel processes can be realized very well in hardware, eg. For example, the Java virtual machine can be implemented not as software but as hardware through a Java processor.

If it is decided to implement the functions in hardware, it should be noted that ASICs and FPGAs have different strengths and weaknesses in terms of IT security. With ASICs there are risks in design and manufacturing. In order to prevent an attacker from incorporating unwanted features or backdoors or spying on sensitive information, the chips should be tested appropriately and the development and manufacturing chain should be confidential (see M 2.563 Selection of a trusted supplier and supplier) Logistics chain and a qualified manufacturer of embedded systems). For FPGAs, the circuit is initially formulated in a hardware description language, which can also incorporate foreign intellectual property. Using special design tools, the circuit is synthesized and implemented. The configuration data are then transferred to the FPGA. It must be ensured that any third-party intellectual property that may be used is trustworthy, that the design tools are not tampered with, and that the data is transferred to the FPGA in a secure environment. If necessary, the transmission is to be encrypted.

There are also differences in electromagnetic compatibility with the logic components. FPGAs are more sensitive to particle radiation and electromagnetic waves than ASICs.

If an embedded system is not developed by itself, but procured as a whole or in components, the above recommendations apply accordingly.



