#M 4.159 Safe operation of Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The safety of a complex system must be permanently maintained during operation, since necessary changes occur during operation. It is therefore not sufficient to set a safe initial configuration (see M 4.153 Secure installation of Novell eDirectory, M 4.155 Secure configuration of Novell eDirectorys and the corresponding measures M 4.154 Secure installation of the Novell eDirectory client software and M 4.156 Secure configuration of the Novell eDirectory client software Novell eDirectory client software).

After installation and initial configuration in accordance with the pre-defined eDirectory concepts and security guidelines, the operation of eDirectory servers usually takes place in the network. The security of such a network depends on the one hand on the one hand initially set configuration. However, it is also largely determined by the type of configuration changes that must be made during operation. In particular, side effects that may inadvertently lead to security gaps must also be taken into account.

The following aspects must be considered during operation for an eDirectory directory system from the point of view of information security:

* The eDirectory certificate server plays an essential role in the directory access control mechanisms. The certificate server is installed on the first eDirectory server of an eDirectory tree. For each new object in eDirectory, a separate key pair is automatically generated and stored on the certificate server. The secure operation of this first eDirectory server in the tree is therefore particularly important. It is not only the sensitive data that is on it that should be protected, but above all its availability. It is therefore strongly recommended to configure the replication of the eDirectory to different servers. In particular, at least a complete read / write replica should exist. If, for one important reason, the main server is shut down or permanently shut down, the next read / write replica can be declared a master replica and operation can continue.


* The security of an IT system is always based on the physical security of servers and network components. This must also be ensured for the operation of eDirectory. Corresponding measures can be found in layer 2, for example in the blocks B 2.4 server room or B 2.9 data center.


* Changes in an eDirectory directory system are particularly noticeable when foreign eDirectory or LDD directories are imported into an existing eDirectory tree. As a rule, these newly imported directories are not yet integrated into the existing security structures. To ensure that the defined security policy continues to be implemented consistently, the configuration of the security settings must be made up immediately. Permissions to import new directories and to create directory replicas must be granted restrictively.


* In order to understand the safety status of a system, it is necessary to monitor it. The purpose of such monitoring is to detect violations of applicable security regulations, detect existing security gaps or detect misconfigurations that could potentially lead to security vulnerabilities. A corresponding monitoring concept is also to be regarded as part of the security concept. As a rule, complex systems such as eDirectory can no longer be monitored by individual administrators, but the monitoring must be carried out automatically by appropriate system components or products from third-party manufacturers. The configuration of the system monitoring must be regularly adapted to the changing system. The recommendations for monitoring are summarized in M 4.160 Monitoring by Novell eDirectory.


* An important aspect of the system security of an eDirectory system is the consistent administration of users and authorizations. The administrative concept has an impact on the complexity of the tasks to be performed. Since complex processes can easily lead to errors, the administrative tasks should be as simple as possible. This helps maintain a safe system health. Therefore, a group-based access concept is indispensable. This greatly simplifies the administration of access rights to databases and makes them less error-prone.


From a safety point of view it is also important that all guidelines, regulations and processes concerning the operation of an eDirectory system are documented. Operating manuals should be created and updated when system changes occur. Since the operating manuals contain safety-related information, they must be stored in such a way that unauthorized persons can not gain access to them. However, authorized administrators should be able to easily see the manuals.

The listed recommendations can only be of a general character at this point, since the maintenance of system security also depends on local conditions. For this reason, appropriate guidelines for secure operation have to be created in the planning phase of an eDirectory directory tree, which take account of local requirements. Under certain circumstances it can also happen that certain mechanisms can not be optimally configured safely. This is z. B. This is the case when old applications that are only designed for weak or no authentication must continue to be operated. Here must then by alternative countermeasures elsewhere, z. B. At the organizational level, adequate security can be achieved.

Potential security vulnerabilities can only be discovered or avoided by competent administrators. Therefore, the training and education of system administrators is an important safeguard (see also M 3.29 Novell eDirectory Administration Briefing). In addition, normal users must also be trained in safety aspects (see also M 3.30 Training on using Novell eDirectory client software) so that potential dangers are known and the available security mechanisms can be used correctly.

The security settings and log files of a server should be checked on a regular basis. This can be done manually or tool-supported. Otherwise, there is a risk that deviations from the security guidelines and security problems will not be detected early enough and will therefore not be corrected in good time (see also M 4.160 Monitoring Novell eDirectory).



## Examples 
* Is the eDirectory certificate server replicated to different servers?
* Are the security settings adjusted after changes to the eDirectory directory system?
* Are all guidelines, regulations and processes concerning the operation of an eDirectory system documented and up-to-date?
* Are the security settings and log files of an eDirectory server regularly checked?




