#M 4.273 Secure use of SAP Java stack software distribution
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Java stack uses its own software distribution method, which differs from the ABAP stack transport system. The so-called Software Deployment Manager (SDM) is used to load new software into the JAVA stack. The SDM is client / server based so changes can be made remotely. In addition to the general requirements (see M 2.221 Change Management), the following must be considered in the context of software deployment (deployment) from a security point of view:

* A concept for the SAP software distribution must have been planned and created. The software distribution concept must be adapted to the Java features, since different methods and tools have to be used in comparison to the ABAP stack.
* The responsibilities have to be defined for the test, validation and acceptance process.
* Developers or other persons should not distribute software directly from development environments to production systems. It should be noted that the SAP development environment can load software directly into the Java stack. This can be ruled out by technical measures (eg firewall).
* The Software Deployment Manager (SDM) service used for software distribution must be operated safely. Older versions of the SDM now provide a weak hedge because only one user is supported and no further permissions can be granted.
* The SDM server component should not run permanently, but should be started only when needed.


Sources for SAP documentation can be found in M 2.341 Planning SAP Use.



