#M 4.448 Use of encryption for storage solutions
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

For information that has a high protection requirement in terms of confidentiality in a storage solution, possibilities for the use of encryption should be checked.

If data is encrypted in storage solutions, institutions must continue to implement measures M 2.46 Appropriate key management and M 5.68 Use of encryption procedures for network communication and the necessary requirements.

It must be differentiated between the encryption of the data in the transport path (data-in-motion) or the data directly on the storage unit (data-at-rest). Encryption on the transport path is also relevant for replication and backup traffic, while backup or archive data created at Rest must be encrypted.

Encryption of data with high or very high protection requirements in terms of confidentiality should be ensured as a matter of priority by the application, which is also responsible for the processing of the data.

In this case, the encryption technology can either be integrated directly into the components of a storage solution or the encryption can be ensured with the aid of an additional product. An easy-to-implement solution offers today the use of self-encrypting hard disks within a storage system.

The transport of Fiber Channel frames should also be done over an encrypted connection if the data does not leave the data center.

Securing a SAN connection over IP requires the implementation of additional protection because an IP connection is much easier to compromise than a dedicated Fiber Channel connection. If the application does not provide the encryption of the connection, an encrypted connection must be made and used by other means (such as operating system or transport network functions) to maintain the confidentiality of the data.



