#M 4.490 Automatic monitoring of the assembly function (BIST) in embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities, procurer, planner, head of IT

Responsible for implementation:     Beschaffer, planner

A built-in self-test (BIST) allows a circuit, device or system to test itself. For this test signals are generated, applied to the component to be tested and the response signals evaluated, usually by comparison with predetermined correct response signals. In the case of a BIST, the functions of the test environment (automatic test equipment, AT E), such as test signal generators or evaluation units, are implemented completely or partially directly on the chip. This leads to shortened signal paths, unwanted couplings are reduced and the Signalintegrit t on the test leads is improved.

A self-test may be performed as a functional diagnostic test of the software and hardware during normal operation, during initialization, during sleep, before power-off, or outside the operating environment. Examples of different types of BIST are:

* Logic BIST: A pseudo-pattern or pseudo-random generator generates a random pattern to check the logical states. If the output states do not correspond to the truth table, then the logic works incorrectly.
* Memory BIST: Memory modules are read out by means of a test circuit and their output states are compared with a predetermined pattern.
* Signature analysis: Signals from circuit parts are collected over a longer period of time and a signature is determined from this. This is compared with a setpoint value and from this the correct or faulty function of the overall circuit is deduced.
* Boundary Scan Test: With the aid of additional cells, so-called latches, signals are injected via predefined paths from the outside into the circuit under test. The signals from the circuit, which are applied to pins of the circuit, can be detected via the scan path. In normal operation, the latches are passive, there is no functional difference to the original circuit.
* Analog and Mixed Signal BIST: First, the digital components are fully verified using a digital BIST circuit. Then the analog-to-digital converter (AD C) and the digital-to-analog converter (DAC) are verified. Subsequently, other components can be verified by placing them between DAC and AD C using analog multiplexers.


All embedded system assemblies with increased availability and integrity requirements should have built-in self-test facilities. Tests must check the integrity of the system during start-up and at appropriate intervals during operation. As far as possible, the self-test functionalities should also check the safety functions and / or the safety properties of the module.

For components with higher protection requirements, eg. For example, in critical control systems, the integrity of the memory and I / O components should be regularly checked in the BIST framework. Existing BIST functions are, if possible, to supplement the required functions.



