#M 4.231 Use of additional security tools for smartphones, tablets or PDAs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

There are several additional tools that can improve the security of PDAs. These provide advanced security features such as

* Encryption of the file system and the memory card contents or even individual files or databases,
* Improvement of authentication, eg. By simpler or more secure authentication methods,
* Securing the connection to other components, eg. Eg by encrypting the communication or by generating one-time passwords for the registration via external IT systems,
* Virus protection and
* Prevention of unauthorized access to the device.


As a result, PDA security can be increased to some extent. For this, however, users must know the extended security mechanisms precisely. You should be informed on the one hand about their benefits and weaknesses and on the other about their handling. In general, however, it should be clear to all users that it is almost impossible to implement a dependable secure application on an insecure platform with weak security mechanisms. For many of the PDA security products, warnings about security gaps have already been issued. Even with the available additional security software for PDAs, only some, but not all, existing security problems with PDA deployment are resolved.

Nevertheless, it should be examined to what extent such tools make sense for the respective application, as they help to reduce the danger potential. The use of such tools is especially advisable when PDAs are used as security tokens or for the storage of sensitive data. For example, there are tools to improve access protection, encrypt individual files or the entire system, and centralized administration.



