#M 4.330 Secure installation of a Samba server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

When installing a Samba server, there are several aspects to consider that have a direct impact on security.

The operating system on which the Samba service operates must be installed and configured with many security considerations in mind. For this, the corresponding IT-Grundschutz modules must be implemented. In addition, M 4.331 Secure operating system configuration for a Samba server indicates what additional steps must be performed on the server running the Samba service.

An important aspect when installing the Samba service is the integrity of the software to be installed (see M 4.327 Checking the Integrity and Authenticity of Samba Packages and Sources).

The documentation provided with the Samba service is very detailed and describes in detail the necessary steps for an installation. The basic protection measure can not replace the supplied documentation, but merely gives indications of special points to be observed. It refers to the installation of a Samba server from the compiled source code. Binaries from operating system vendors or distributors may differ.



## Examples 
* Has the integrity of the software been checked before installation?
* Is the installation and configuration sufficiently documented?
* Has the source code package been unpacked, configured and translated under an unprivileged user account?
* Has Samba been installed in a controlled manner in the server's root file system?
* Was it documented with which parameters the compilation process was started?
* Was a log of the outputs of the configuration and compilation process made?




