#M 4.435 Self-encrypting hard drives
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

To prevent unauthorized persons from accessing confidential data on hard disks, they should, if possible, be completely encrypted (see also M.4.433 Use of disk encryption). There are hardware and software based encryption methods. In this case, the hardware-based encryption is handled in the form of self-encrypting hard disks (Self-Encrypting Device, SED). SEDs access a special hardware crypto controller for encryption and are therefore very performant. The encryption solutions used are for use only by a user, multi-user solutions are generally not provided.

When using a self-encrypting hard disk, the IT system may not be suspended in memory because all data is encrypted when the hard disk is turned off and a key stored in RAM would pose a security risk. This is to be considered before use.

Self-encrypting hard drives should not be combined with a TPM module, as such a combination usually does not give you the option to decrypt the hard drive in another IT system with a master key. If the IT system is damaged in such a case, the data on the hard disk can no longer be deciphered, since the hard disk is firmly interwoven with the IT system thanks to the TPM module.

Self-encrypting hard drives typically use AES with key lengths of 128 to 256 bits. The key with which the information is encrypted is the so-called Data Encryption Key (DEK). The DEK is located in the cryptocontroller, which is particularly protected against manipulation. It is generated on the basis of random hardware events. This DEK is encrypted with an Authentication Key (AK). The AK is typically generated by the user by choosing a password. With some self-encrypting hard disks, the AK can also be stored on a token, for example a chip card or an USB stick, and additionally encrypted with a password. This allows the implementation of a two-factor authentication.

In addition to the DEK and AK, there is usually also a master key that allows you to decrypt the data, even if the password or the token was lost. Such a key must be created during installation and kept safe in case the password or token is lost. It is necessary to regulate how organizational is done when a user forgets the password to an encrypted hard disk. In this case, the password must be reset with the master key and the user must set a new password.

If the user has successfully authenticated, the DEK is decrypted. With the DEK, all data on the hard disk is encrypted and encrypted, without the user noticing anything of it during operation. If the computer is shut down or if the drive connection of the SED is deleted, all data is encrypted with the DEK and the DEK with the AK.

In general, the key length used for the encryption process used by the hard disk should be sufficiently long. Further details on appropriate key sequences of cryptographic methods can be found in M 2.164 Selection of a suitable cryptographic method.

Before self-encrypting hard disks are procured, it should be checked whether the hard disks are compatible with the other hardware of the IT system. Furthermore, it should be checked whether the read and write rate of the selected hard disk is appropriate. In addition, it should be checked whether further boundary conditions for use in the IT system must be fulfilled. For example, very few models of self-encrypting hard drives can be integrated into an existing single-sign-on architecture. It should also be checked if and how IT systems can be migrated to self-encrypting hard disks using standard hard disks (eg with a supplied program or via a new installation).

The installation of a self-encrypting hard disk should be done in institutions by trained administrators. To do so, they first have to create a new DEK and assign a password and create a master key that must be stored securely (see M 6.56 Data backup when using cryptographic methods and M 2.22 Storing the password). The DEK start password must first be changed by the user of the client to a secure password (see M 2.11 Control of password usage).

If a self-encrypting hard drive is repaired or if it is to be sold or disposed of, it must be ensured that no valuable information can be obtained from it. To do this, the DEK should be regenerated before repair, sale or disposal, or a deletion command ATA Secure Erase should be executed.



