#M 4.305 Use of memory restrictions (Quotas)
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

Even if the procurement of an IT system was made to ensure that it offers enough storage space, in many cases it will sooner or later run out of space if you use it for a long time. On IT systems that are used by different users, the existing resources must therefore be divided so that all users can work as optimally as possible.

Frequently the phenomenon can be observed that the users would like to have more storage space than they have at their disposal. In addition to the ever-growing memory footprint of applications, another reason is that many users are reluctant to part with old and unused files. If no restrictions are made on storage space limitation and archiving, there is a risk that storage space for large amounts of legacy data will be wasted or the user directories will overflow.

A simple solution would be to always provide more and more storage space as needed as demand increases. However, this is not always feasible in practice.

For users or user groups, but also for applications, Disk Quotas can set a storage volume that must not be exceeded. On servers and all IT systems that are used concurrently by multiple users or applications, storage space should therefore be restricted for individual users as well as for disk quota applications. These include servers (eg file, web and mail servers) and clients with multiple user accounts. For clients on which the data is separated from the system partition and which are only used by one user, a disk quota can be dispensed with.

The choice of the quota volume is important. If all users are to receive the same quota volume, the required volume can be calculated by dividing the space to be used by the number of users. In addition, however, a space reserve should be scheduled. The problem is the choice of a too small disk quota. If the users have too little space available, they could try to store the information outside the intended directories in order to avoid the restrictions. For this purpose, storage locations are frequently used which are not suitable for this purpose, eg. temporary directories or other directories writable to all users. When space on file servers is too tight, users often rely on local hard drives. In many cases, this violates the regulations and may, for example, lead to the files not being included in the central backup.

On the one hand, it should be determined which information should be stored where and how many versions of a file should be stored on the production system for how long.

Data from completed projects should be archived in an orderly manner and not kept in stock for all cases on the productive systems. On the other hand, it should be determined how much storage space is available to the various user groups and applications. In addition, a reserve should be scheduled. It must also be determined how users can be allocated more storage space if needed. The set values ??must be documented. In addition, they must be regularly checked and updated.

Once the size of the disk quota has been determined, it should be considered whether and how to respond to a higher demand for disk space. This decision is influenced by the selection of a quota type. Fixed quota limits are set so that users do not have the ability to spend more than their allocated storage quota. A soft quota, on the other hand, allows users to exceed the disk quota for a fixed amount of time and up to a specified limit. If the disk quota is exceeded, at least the user must be informed about this, for example by e-mail. It should also be considered to notify the administrator so that he can respond to any problems that may arise. In addition, it must be determined whether and how individual users can be allocated additional storage space. This should be a regulated and comprehensible procedure. Disk quotas should not be raised on acclamation.

Many popular operating systems include tools to set up Disk Quotas. However, it should be checked if additional software is needed to set up and manage a disk quota.



