#M 4.372 Using FileVault on Mac OS X
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Since the Mac OS X version Panther (10.3), user folders can be encrypted with FileVault using the AES-128 algorithm. However, the main FileVault password is encrypted with RSA-1024, resulting in effective encryption protection of 112 bits. FileVault is integrated directly into the operating system, no additional software is required to encrypt the user folder.

Because FileVault is very easy to use, it is recommended to encrypt the user directories in general. This is especially true for sensitive information on mobile computers that are exposed to an increased theft risk. FileVault can be an alternative.

FileVault protects the information only when the client is shut down properly or the user is not yet logged in. After the user has successfully logged in, FileVault encrypts the disk image into the system as a user directory (home) and is available. At no point in time is the entire disk image decoded, only the parts that are currently needed are loaded into the main memory. The encryption of the file takes place again, as soon as it is no longer in the main memory. If the user logs off, FileVault encrypts the disk image from the file system and files are protected.

If the users can log on to the client without authentication (automatic logon), the information protected by FileVault will be decrypted without password prompting. For effective protection of the information by FileVault, the automatic login must be deactivated and a sufficiently secure password must be selected (see M 2.11 Control of password usage).



## Examples 
* Is the Mac OS Extended (journaled) file system used for partitions to be encrypted with FileVault, and is the Case Sensitive or Case Sensitive option deselected there?
* When using FileVault, did you set a strong enough user password for Mac OS X and disable automatic login?
* Is a sufficiently strong main FileVault password set and secure for Mac OS X?
* Is Mac OS X users aware that FileVault only encrypts their personal home folder?
* Do Mac OS X users know that using the main FileVault password, they can recover their data in the event of user password loss?




