#M 4.235 Synchronization of the datasets of laptops
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

When using a laptop while traveling, it is important to have all the latest data and applications available. Likewise, data processed on the move should be stored promptly on IT systems within the IT or- ganization of the agency or company so that inconsistent data does not arise. The easiest way to do this is to periodically synchronize laptops, such as tools to synchronize files and directories between laptops and workstations or servers.

For this purpose, it should be considered which information is stored in which places, that is, on which servers and in which directories. The first sighting usually shows how many different places in an IT network the information relevant for a job is.

In order to ensure that synchronization processes do not take too long, tools should be selected for this purpose.

* The files and directories can be automatically synchronized and updated according to predefined criteria,
* which can exclude complete directories or even individual files from copying via filter options,
* the synchronization conflicts can resolve. Synchronization conflicts can occur if a file has been changed in different directories since the last synchronization.


Synchronization tools should also be as user-friendly as possible while still providing good protection against incorrect operation. Synchronization processes should be protected against access; for laptops, this can be done using existing access protection procedures.

To avoid tampering with the synchronization, users should periodically inspect the relevant directories for any unknown files. The synchronization software should be configured to return a prompt to the user before installing any programs. The synchronization process should not be unobserved, and the information about which files are transferred can also be crucial. The synchronization should be logged. The synchronization logs should then at least be regularly flown over to see if any unauthorized synchronization has taken place.



