#M 4.407 Logging when using OpenLDAP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

Since OpenLDAPin is usually a central component of a network, activities in OpenLDAP must be logged and monitored, for example, to notice technical problems or attempted attacks in good time. For OpenLDAP, there are several ways to create event logs and to monitor the current state of the system.

The log data must be evaluated regularly in compliance with internal organization requirements in order to detect misuse and system errors. When logging and monitoring a directory service used for user administration, personal data that is suitable for performance or behavioral control inevitably accrue. If logging and monitoring are set up, the data protection officer (see also M 2.110 Data protection aspects during logging) and the responsible employee representatives should therefore be involved. The evaluation can be done manually or with the support of a tool. In advance, critical events should be defined, ie those in which an administrator is to be notified.



## Examples 
* It is possible to restrict the logging by the sub-directive logops to certain operations such as write access only.
* It is also possible to record unsuccessful accesses (subdirectory logsuccess FALSE). If unsuccessful access attempts occur, this should be investigated in more detail. Possible reasons for this are: Access rights were assigned incorrectly. Users were insufficiently trained. An attacker tried to carry out inadmissible operations in the directory service. The log data is stored in another database, which Directive logdb is set. Through a skillful granting of rights or replication of the database, it is possible to remove the records of access from the influence of the administrators. By storing the accesses in an LDAP database, the entries themselves are accessible via LDAP. Accordingly, more convenient evaluation options are available than is the case with a normal log in the form of a text file. The overlay can be instructed via the sub-directive logpurge to delete contents of the database at certain intervals, for example Example every day all content older than two weeks. Thus, among other things, data protection requirements can be technically supported.




