#M 4.292 Logging with VoIP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

With communication over VoIP numerous information can be logged. In most cases, certain status information of the VoIP middleware must be logged in order to ensure smooth operation. Only the regular evaluation of this protocol data makes it possible to assess the correct functioning of the devices and to detect attempts at attack. With the help of the log data, the type of attack attempt can often be reconstructed and the configuration adjusted accordingly.

Careful configuration of the logging functions is particularly important, as only meaningful filtering from the large amount of information extracts the relevant data.

Depending on the nature of the logged events, it may be necessary to intervene as soon as possible. Therefore, the log data must be evaluated regularly.

On the one hand, logging functions can contribute to the comprehensibility of the VoIP operation. On the other hand, there is a risk that logging functions will be misused for violations of information security or data protection. It must therefore be determined and documented, which information is logged and how the regular evaluation of the log data is done. In each case, the data protection officer and the personnel or works council must be involved (see also M 2.110 Data protection aspects during logging). The scope of the logging and the criteria for its evaluation should be documented and agreed within the institution. If necessary, the respective co-determination bodies should be involved in good time.



## Examples 
* who talked to whom,
* how long was phoned
* whether the recipient accepted the call,
* from which network and which IP address the call was made,
* which media transport protocols and which codec were negotiated.




