#M 4.269 Secure configuration of the SAP system database
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The database used by an SAP system for storage contains all the information of an SAP system. The communication between the SAP system and the database takes place via SQL queries that are transmitted via the local network if the database and the SAP system components are not installed on the same computer. Therefore, the database must be protected as well as possible. Please note the following:

* The joint installation of SAP system and database on one computer is generally only useful for small companies and authorities. For larger institutions, the separate installation is preferable, as the database computer can be optimally designed for the load and performance requirements separately.
* No database administrator can access the tables of the SAP system. The database authorizations must be checked and adapted accordingly. It should be kept in mind that there is typically always a database administrator who has full access to all databases in the institution and therefore tables.
* The database may only be accessed by the SAP system itself. This means in particular: Direct database connections from other systems or clients are to be prevented by a firewall. The database should be used exclusively by the SAP system. Other applications should not create their own tables here. In particular, database links between the database and the tables of the SAP system and other databases must be excluded.
* No other services or applications may run on the database system for the SAP system. Exceptions here are tools for operating system monitoring. If these are used, it must be ensured that connection attempts are only authenticated and carried out by specific computers (administration server, administrator client).
* The database account used by the SAP system must be provided with a secure password.
* The database product used is safe to configure. Unnecessary functions and services must be switched off. This applies in particular to HTTP-based access interfaces such as application servers, which offer the databases for access via a web interface. In general, administrative options are also offered here. Standard users are to be deactivated or deleted, as long as they are not required for administrative operations. All passwords of standard users are to be changed, even if these accounts have been disabled.


Depending on the application scenario, further measures may be necessary. The list is therefore suitable to expand.

It is recommended that you implement SAP's recommendations for securing the database. Details can be found in M 2.346 Using the SAP documentation.



