#M 4.293 Safe operation of hotspots
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

The purpose of a hotspot is generally to allow (foreign) users easy access to the Internet. In order to operate a hotspot permanently and securely, a successful authentication of all users at the hotspot is required. Usual and to some extent safe procedures are for example:

* Web authentication Here, the user enters his access data (IP address, user name, password, etc.) via a web interface. This should of course be encrypted via SSL / TLS. After a successful login, the access for the client will be unlocked.
* Point-to-Point Tunnel Protocol (PPTP) PPTP is a typical tunneling protocol for VPNs, which are protocols used to encrypt data during transmission, transmit it through the tunnel, and manage the connection. As cryptographic methods, PPTP RC4 with 40 or 128 bits for encryption as well as PAP or CHAP for authentication are available. Common vulnerabilities have been discovered in common implementations of this tunneling technique, especially with weak passwords. Without additional security mechanisms PPTP should therefore not be used.
* IPSecIPSec offers strong cryptographic methods and a mutual authentication of the communication partners. This should usefully be based on certificates. On the one hand, however, their use is not yet provided for in all IPsec implementations, on the other hand, they must first be suitably generated and distributed (typical PKI problem).
* WLAN-specific security mechanisms such as WEP, IEEE 802.1X, WPA, WPA2, TKIP, IEEE 802.11iWith all WLAN-specific security mechanisms to ensure security on the radio link. These must be suitably combined. Due to the rapid development in these areas, not all are suitable for use at hotspots because of the prevalence or safety features of these methods.


Hotspot providers should offer suitable authentication procedures.

When operating hotspots, the following security measures should also be implemented:

* Access points that are to be operated as a hotspot may not be connected directly to a LAN, but only via a security gateway.
* The communication of WLAN clients with each other, the so-called inter-client communication, should be completely prevented.
* The radio interface should be monitored by radio analysis systems to detect foreign access points and hotspots.
* The authentication data should always be encrypted via the wireless link, ie between the WLAN client and the access point. In the case of further data transmission from a hotspot access point to the authentication systems (for example a RADIUS server), suitable encryption methods such as SSL or IPSec are to be used, especially when using public networks.
* If certificates are used for authentication, they should be signed by an appropriate certification authority. In addition, the fingerprint of the server certificate should be published so that users can check the authenticity.
* Each operator of a hotspot should offer at least one suitable method for encrypting the radio link, so that users can protect their data against unauthorized reading. However, not all users have a keen interest in protecting their data and systems. The technical prerequisites for the use of offered encryption methods may also be missing. Therefore, their use should be optional. However, users should be made aware of the possibility and benefits of encrypted transmission.
* Many users want to access the network of their own institution via a hotspot, for example via VPN. For this, they must be able to implement the organization's own security requirements. Therefore, the technical design of the hotspot should allow the use of typical security measures such as IPsec.


In addition, hotspot operators should periodically check the logs to see if any irregularities are detected, such as the number of users exceeding the number of guests logged in.

In addition, providers of public hotspots must comply with the respective statutory and regulatory requirements.

Users must be informed in advance of the conditions of use in a suitable manner. In the terms of use should be found clues as to whether the use is free or paid (with indication of the appropriate prices), but also what services, especially what security mechanisms, are offered when using the hotspot. The user must confirm that he has read and accepted the terms of use. In the case of web authentication, for example, the terms of use may be presented on a website and consent to the terms of use may be obtained.

The security guidelines that hotspot users should follow are described in M 2.389 Secure Use of Hotspots.



