#M 4.14 Mandatory password protection under Unix
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The password protection for each account on a Unix computer ensures that only an authorized user can log in under his login name by authentication after entering the login name by entering the password.

When using passwords for users and groups, observe the rules described under M 2.11 Control of password usage. It should be noted that some systems only consider a limited number of characters in password validation. To implement these measures, only program versions of passwd that ensure compliance with these rules should be used, or administrative measures, eg. Shell scripts and corresponding cron entries.

As an additional option, the Unix standard command passwd can also be replaced by other password programs with extended functionality. These include the public domain programs anlpasswd, npasswd and passwd +, which already test the password when it is changed by the user and check it back if it is too weak. They are z. B. Available via ftp server ftp://ftp.cert.dfn.de/pub/tools/password/.

The passwords should not be stored in the readable / etc / passwd file, but in a shadow password file that is unreadable by the user. In every newer Unix system this shadow option is included, but unfortunately not always activated after a first installation (eg under RedHat Linux after the default installation the use of the shadow password file has to be activated with the command pwconv) ,

The file / etc / passwd is regularly checked for user IDs without a password. If one is found, the user is to be blocked. If a password has been agreed for groups, the file / etc / group must be checked accordingly. However, it is advisable not to assign passwords for groups and to enter as few users as possible for each group. Switching between groups in which the user is registered is thereby made easier, and unauthorized switching by systematic trial and error of passwords with the aid of corresponding programs is not possible.

All logins, especially those with UID 0, should be checked regularly for the existence and the value of passwords (see also M 2.11 Control of password usage and M 4.26 Regular security check of the Unix system ). In addition to the programs described in M 4.26 Regular Security Check of the Unix System, these logins can also be used z. B. With



* awk -F: '{if ($ 3 == 0) print $ 1}' / etc / passwd
* awk -F: '{if ($ 2 ==) print $ 1}' / etc / passwd


be determined.



