#M 4.24 Ensuring consistent system administration
Initiation Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In many complex IT systems, eg. under Unix or in a network, there is an administrator role, which is not subject to any restrictions. Under Unix, this is the super user root, in a Novell network the SUPERVISOR or admin. Due to missing restrictions, the risk of mistakes or misuse is particularly high.

In order to avoid mistakes, the super-user login should only be used if necessary; The administrator should not do other work under the administrator ID. In particular, no programs of other users may be called under the administrator ID. Furthermore, the routine system administration (for example, backup, setting up a new user) should only be menu-driven.

By task sharing, regulations, and agreement, it is important to ensure that administrators do not inconsistently or incompletely intervene. For example, a file may not be edited and changed by several administrators at the same time, as only the last saved version will be preserved.

If there is a danger of wires being dropped off to terminals, the administrator should only work on the console so that passwords can not be eavesdropped. When administering Unix systems, encrypted communication can be done using the Secure Shell protocol. This enables secure administration from remote workstations (see also M 5.64 Secure Shell).

For all administrators, additional user IDs should be set up which only have the limited rights that administrators need to perform their tasks outside of the administration. For tasks that are not used for administration, the administrators should only use these additional user IDs.

All changes made should be documented in order to make them comprehensible and to facilitate the division of tasks (see also M 2.34 Documentation of the changes to an existing system). For the subsequent verification of performed administrator functions, a log of the entered commands can be made with the Unix command script. This command logs the entire terminal session in an ASCII file. Such a file can then be attached to an electronic or printed administration journal as required.



