#M 4.252 Secure configuration of training computers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to avoid security problems and the undesirable use of training computers, a minimum configuration of the computers and restrictive rights assignment (see M 2.63 Setting up access rights and M 4.135 Restrictive allocation of access to system files) are required. Recommendations for the configuration of training computers can be taken from measure M 4.95 Minimum Operating System.

Before using training computers, it should be determined which applications and communication interfaces should be used in each training. By defining a default configuration for the training computers (see M 2.69 Setting up standard workstations), the installation effort can be minimized and a minimum level of security for the training computers can be guaranteed. Before each training, it must be checked if the configuration of the computers is suitable for the purpose of the training. In order to be able to do without tedious tests, it makes sense to re-install the training computer before each use via suitably prepared packages (see M 4.109 Software reinstallation on workstations).

Training computers should not be able to copy information such as training or exam papers in an uncontrolled manner and should not be able to load additional files or programs (eg cheat sheets for exams). Therefore, on the one hand, restrictive access rights should be granted for the users of these computers and on the other hand, the transfer of data to external media should be prevented (see also M4.4 Appropriate handling of drives for removable media and external data storage).

It is also necessary to consider whether and to what extent it is necessary to carry out data backups, for example, when exercises or test results are to be saved.

Additional security programs should be installed on the training computers if they are not already part of the operating system. Above all, it makes sense to have an integrity test program (see M 4.93 Regular integrity check) and a software package filter. We also recommend programs for virus scanning and evaluation of the log entries.



