#M 4.346 Secure configuration of virtual IT systems
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Virtual IT systems (sometimes referred to as virtual machines) are primarily IT systems. Therefore, as described in M .2.392 Modeling of Virtualization Servers and Virtual IT Systems, they are to be treated and modeled in the same way as physical IT systems.

However, there are some peculiarities for virtual IT systems that must be taken into account.

Virtual IT systems often need access to devices attached to the virtualization server, such as CD or DVD drives, USB dongles, tape drives (SCSII), and other peripherals. Devices that the virtualization server makes available to the virtual IT systems can often be controlled from the virtual machine via guest tools. For example, the NIC may be disabled, or data media may be physically loaded into the virtual CD / DVD drive or floppy disk drive.

Some virtualization systems also have the option of overwriting main memory or hard disk space. There is talk of overbooking resources if more virtual resources can be allocated to the virtual IT systems than are physically available. To prevent resource bottlenecks, the guest tools in virtual IT systems can provide functions to control these overbooking features. For example, the guest tools from VMware (VMware Tools) have a function to allocate main memory that can be made available to other virtual IT systems (balooning). These tools can also prepare a virtual hard disk for downsizing the file container in which it is contained. For this purpose, all occupied blocks of a virtual hard disk are moved to the beginning of the container and the blocks freed are overwritten with zeroes, so that they can be recognized as free by the virtualization layer.

Therefore, in addition to the measures already known from physical server operation, the following aspects must be considered when commissioning virtual IT systems:

* Kernel, application, and system library changes in OS virtualization, in contrast to server virtualization, affect all virtual IT systems running on the virtualization server and the virtualization server itself. These data are to be monitored for changes, especially since, for example, a compromise of such files creates a very high potential for damage. See also M 4.93 Regular Integrity Check.
* The guest tools can enable virtual IT system users to access disks in the virtualization server's floppy disks or CD / DVD drives. Also, mechanical operations such as opening and closing the drive tray of a physical drive can be controlled by it. Therefore, there is a possibility of unauthorized access to volumes in physical disks, or removal of the volume from a virtual IT system by opening the volume from another virtual machine. The virtual IT systems and the virtualization server must be configured so that this is largely excluded. The easiest way to do this is to assign these devices exclusively to the virtual IT systems only if they are currently required. If they are not needed, the connection to these devices should be disconnected. If it is possible to mount CD or DVD media as image files (ISO images) instead of physical drives, it should be used.
* Functions that allow overbooking of main memory or hard disk space are to be deactivated in the case of virtual IT systems where high performance requirements exist or whose data integrity is particularly important. Resource bottlenecks in overbooking of main memory on a virtualization server usually lead to strong performance losses of the affected virtual IT systems. If hard disk space is overbooked and the physically available space is no longer sufficient, the virtualization server usually does not permit any further write access to the overbooked storage space. As a result, hard disk errors occur in the virtual IT systems, which can lead to inconsistencies in the stored data.
* Preparing virtual disks to shrink their physical container places a heavy burden on virtualization server mass storage. This can lead to performance limitations of all virtual IT systems running on the virtualization server. If multiple virtualization servers access a storage network, all virtualisation servers may be affected. Therefore, this feature should be disabled when it is not needed.
* Deactivating devices such as network adapters with guest tools is a virtual equivalent of removing the network cable of a physical IT system. Since this is often possible in virtualized environments without access to this system, this feature should be disabled. It should only be activated temporarily if it is absolutely necessary.


Some of the features described above are controlled or enabled through guest tools that can be installed in the virtual IT systems. Therefore, binding regulations for the configuration and use of these guest tools in virtual IT systems have to be created.



