#M 4.404 Secure design of the logic of web applications
Responsible for initiation: department, IT security officer, responsible for the individual applications

Responsible for implementation: Developer, Tester

Web applications depict complex business processes that go beyond just displaying individual web pages. In the technical design of these processes, care must be taken that the implemented application logic can not be misused. For example, you should not break out of an intended process of the web application and thus control the process from the outside.

The requirements for the illustrated business logic must be precisely recorded and correctly implemented, so that only intended and planned actions can be carried out. A different behavior must be rejected. For example, if a Web application recommendation function is designed solely to send product recommendations, it should be kept in mind that this feature may also be misused to send SPAM e-mails. If the recommendation text is specified in this example, it is not possible to send SPAM using this function. Furthermore, it must also be examined whether errors in the business logic can occur through two concurrent sessions (race conditions).

When designing the web application, all functions should therefore be documented by means of application cases. It should be recorded for which purposes the functions should be used and how an abusive use can be avoided.

If the web application is aborted for any reason, the logic must ensure that the web application returns to a consistent state (roll back).

Interactive features in web offerings may also be implemented through active content running on the client system (eg, per JavaScript). Often it is also possible to provide these functionalities with dynamic or static content. Since the use of active content for security reasons is often deactivated on the client systems, it is recommended to refrain from the use of active content when designing the web application and to implement the application logic purely on the server side.

Interactive functions in web applications can be implemented in different ways: server-side or client-side. Since the client is not under the control of the web application, it can not be ruled out that it will be abused. Active content such as JavaScript or ActiveX has been and still is exploited to attack web applications and the information they manage. For safety reasons, it is therefore advisable to implement active content on the server side or, if possible, to do without it.

If the use of active content is required, the following points should be noted:

* It should be ensured that the web application can be used even if active content execution is disabled in the browser.
* Active content should, as far as possible, be traceable from which source it originates so that an effective check can be made in the client. This can be achieved, for example, by the signature of ActiveX components.
* If serialization and dynamic generation of XML data is unavoidable when using Ajax, frameworks should be used where possible.
* When using JavaScript, the function call eval () should be omitted.
* If the web application uses JSON for data exchange, then only objects are to be used as top-level elements.


Examples:

* A web application authenticates users in multiple, sequential steps. The users must enter the user name and password in the first step and an authentication token in the second step. The first step should not be skipped to ensure that all authentication features are entered. In the final step for the final authentication, a recheck of all authentication features must then be carried out.
* Even in the conception phase of a banking application, it must be considered that a user can also enter negative amounts in a transfer form. The web application must ensure that this does not reverse the logic of the referral form and not trigger an unanticipated credit.




