#M 4.116 Secure installation of Lotus Notes / Domino
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The prerequisite for the secure installation of Lotus Notes / Domino is the planning of the framework conditions of the deployment, described in M 2.206 Planning the Use of Lotus Notes / Domino. Then the Lotus Notes / Domino components are installed on the relevant servers and clients. For this purpose, secure installation procedures as well as protection-oriented protection of the installation environment and the installation media must be defined and adhered to.

It makes sense to differentiate between installation procedures for reinstalling the entire Lotus Notes / Domino platform and installation procedures for customizations (software upgrades, patches) and migrations.



## Examples 
* The installation procedures to be followed during a new installation must be defined and documented. Here are general rules regarding the procedures to set as well as special rules for the installation of servers, server services and clients. The general regulations include, for example, the definition of responsibility for the initiation and implementation of new installations, approval and control procedures for the installation procedure itself and the required configurations (eg four-eyes Principle) as well as the regulations for production release.
* If general rules on installation procedures already exist, they can be referenced. In this case, however, the specifics of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform should be added.
* The reinstallation installation procedure must ensure that sufficient documentation of the installation process and sufficiently granular logging of critical substeps is performed. This documentation is necessary for the detection of manipulations of the installed components, but also for troubleshooting.
* If automated installation procedures are used, a detailed documentation of the parameters used, Skripteetc.zu to create. It is necessary to establish a suitable test and approval of both the installation packages and the installed components.
* The installation procedure must ensure that after installation, only the authorized administrators can access the installed directory and file structures through the operating system or administrative tools. In addition, the legal structures have to be adjusted accordingly.
* It must be ensured that only authorized administrators and maintenance technicians have physical access to the Domino servers, even during the installation.
* Selection of a suitable basic installation: Since a Domino server can be used in different ways, it must be ensured during installation that the most suitable basic installation is selected for the intended purpose. So z. For example, you can choose between the predefined installation Domino Utility Server (without messaging services, intended as a pure application server), Domino Messaging Server (without application services, intended as a pure messaging server), and Domino Enterprise Server (all services). The installation option Customize Domino Server allows a finely granular adaptation of the basic installation. The selection of the suitable basic installation and in particular the finely granular adaptation to the intended use is a prerequisite for a safe configuration and hardening.




