#M 4.69 Regular security check of the database
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The database administrator should perform a security check of the database system (DBS) on a regular basis, but at least once a month, which should be regulated by the operational concept. Depending on the test results, appropriate measures should be taken to eliminate deviations from the requirements of the operating concept. These measures and the responsibilities for implementation should also be defined in the operational concept.

The following aspects should at least be checked in the context of the security check, whereby the points marked with (*) can usually be automated by appropriate scripts:

* Are the proofs given in the operational concept (eg documentation of changes) correctly drawn up?
* Are the required and planned security and security mechanisms active and effective?
* Are there database users with easily identifiable or no password? (*)
* Are there any users who no longer need their assigned rights to perform their tasks?
* Who else may or may access the files of the database software or the database files at the operating system level apart from the database administrator? (*)
* Who else has access to the system tables of the databases apart from the database administrator?
* Who is allowed to access the database with an interactive SQL editor?
* Which user identifiers have modifying access rights to the database objects of the applications? (*)
* Which user IDs have reading and / or modifying access rights to the data of the applications? (*)
* Which users have the same rights as the database administrator? (*)
* Does the database system have enough free resources? (*)




