#M 4.325 Delete swap files
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Today's operating systems support virtual memory. So that (more or less) more main memory is available to users than is available in the computer, the currently unused part of the main memory is swapped to hard disk (swap area).

These paging files also contain portions of the information that users used while they were working. This can include sensitive data such as passwords or cryptographic keys. The files are not deleted when the user logs off or the system is turned off. Therefore, paging files could be exploited by an attacker to extract sensitive data.

In order to prevent the reading out of paging files, the paging area should either be temporarily or permanently deactivated or safely deleted before each switch-off.

Current Windows operating systems can be configured to overwrite the paging file when the computer boots or shuts down. The paging file (pagefile.sys), as well as the hibernation file (hiberfil.sys), is overwritten with zeros when the system shuts down when Shutdown: Delete virtual memory paging file is set , However, overwriting the paging file may take longer, depending on the size. Nevertheless, this option should be set on clients, especially laptops. For servers with very large paging files, normal protection needs should be considered if this is required there. For higher protection requirements, the paging file should always be deleted automatically. As of Windows Vista, there is the possibility that the paging file will be encrypted perEFS at system startup. This is much more efficient and recommended in all cases where the paging file is not already encrypted with full disk encryption such as BitLocker Drive Encryption.

If more protection is required, further measures should be taken against the readout of paging files. These can z. B. Tools that safely clear the swap area before each shutdown can be used. In order to avoid the problem as such, however, cryptographic file systems can be used, with which the entire contents of the hard disk are encrypted. Thus, no access to the paging file is possible.

Switching off or deleting the swap area is useful for ad hoc solutions, but not a permanent alternative. The complete encryption of the hard drives is the better solution with higher protection requirements.

For Unix systems, the swap files are stored in the swap file system. This is a stand-alone partition that can be encrypted. Before the swap partition is encrypted, it must be checked whether sufficient computing power is available for this purpose. A sure measure to protect against unwanted evaluation of the swap area is the encryption of the entire data carrier and is therefore recommended, if possible.



