#M 4.41 Use of appropriate security products for IT systems
Responsible for initiation: Data protection officer, IT security officer, person responsible for the individual applications, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Procurement

Depending on the security requirements placed on an IT system, the existing security functionalities may not be sufficient, so that suitable security products should also be used. Typical examples are access control, access rights management and verification, logging or encryption.

For IT systems, for example, it must be ensured that

* only authorized persons can use the IT system (see also BDSG, access control). For this purpose, suitable authentication mechanisms should be selected.
* users can access the data only in the manner that they need to complete the task. Here, suitable user separation and rights assignment support.
* Irregularities and manipulation attempts become recognizable. Logging capabilities, encryption, and digital signature help.
* Data are protected against accidental destruction or loss (availability control). This support, for example, backup programs.


If the logging options of the IT system are insufficient to ensure sufficient evidence, they must be retrofitted. There are also various laws that require this. For example, according to BDSG, when checking input, it must be ensured that it can be subsequently verified and ascertained whether and by whom personal data has been entered, changed or removed in data processing systems.

If it is not possible with the IT system to prevent the administrator from accessing certain data or at least logging and controlling this access, then z. Encrypting the data prevents the administrator from reading this data in plain text when not in possession of the associated key.



## Examples 
* Identification and Authentication: The system should lock after a specified number of failed authentication attempts, which only an administrator can reset. If a password is used, the password should be at least eight digits long and should not be stored unscrambled in the system.
* Rights management and control: There should be a rights management and control on hard disks and files, with at least between reading and writing access to be distinguished. For users, system access at the operating system level should not be possible.
* Role separation between administrator and user: A clear separation between administrator and user should be possible, whereby only the administrator should be able to assign or withdraw rights.
* Logging of operations Login, logout and violation of rights should be possible.
* Automatic screen lock: After a temporary inactivity of the keyboard or mouse, a screen lock should be activated automatically. This should also be activated directly. The renewed access to the IT system may only be possible again after successful identification and authentication.
* Boot protection should prevent the computer from being booted without authorization from other media.




