#M 4.47 Logging security gateway activities
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

It must be determined which events are logged and who evaluates the logs. The logging must comply with the applicable legal regulations. For protocol data in Germany, in particular, the purpose limitation according to   14 desBDSG must be observed.

The following points should be observed when using logging on the security gateway:

* It must be possible to assign the protocol data (for example IP addresses) to individual computers (or persons). However, the applicable legal regulations on data protection must be observed.
* The log data should not only be stored on the individual components of the security gateway, but also on a central logging server (loghost), so that the risk of data loss due to a hacker attack or a system failure is reduced.
* The transmission of log information from the components to the loghost must be done via a secure connection, so that the log information can not be changed before it is finally stored.
* If non-trusted networks have to be passed during the transmission to the loghost, the data must be encrypted.
* The amount of free space on the medium used should be checked regularly.
* If logging fails (eg due to lack of space on the hard disk), all functions that generate log data should be blocked. Ideally, the security gateway should block all traffic and pass a message to the administrator.
* The log data should be stored on a WORM medium (Write Once, Read Many).
* The nature and extent of the logging should be based on the sensitivity of the data to be processed and the intended use.
* Special, adjustable events, such as Repeated incorrect password entries for a user ID or inappropriate connection attempts must be highlighted during logging and should lead to an immediate warning from the firewall administrator.
* The individual components should perform a time synchronization to allow correlation of the data. See also M 4.227 Use of a Local NTP Server for Time Synchronization.


For small networks where only a simple security gateway is used, an additional loghost may not be necessary.



## Examples 
* Unusual packages, such as a bad combination of TCP flags or packets with incorrect header information. Although such packets should be rejected by a corresponding packet filter rule anyway, they should already be logged, but they are still recommended To log packets separately, since they can be evidence of so-called stealth scans, for example. In addition, calling incorrect packages may indicate technical problems in the network.
* For connection-oriented (for example, TCP-based) protocols, it may be useful to also log accepted packets that belong to a connection (for example, TCP packets that belong to the 3-way handshake), and possibly additionally Packages that are used to reduce an existing connection.
* For connectionless protocols that do not transfer large amounts of data (for example, UDP-based protocols such as DNS), it may be useful to log all packets.




