#M 4.169 Use of suitable archive media
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The permanent electronic archiving of documents requires the use of suitable data carriers (archive media). The following questions should be considered for the choice of archive media:

* Which data volume should be archived?
* Which access times are to be provided on average?
* What is the average number of concurrent requests?
* Which retention periods should be covered by the archive medium?
* Should data be saved audit-proof?


The following sections describe typical archive media and their uses. For the data carriers, magnetic, magneto-optical or optical storage technologies are usually used. The advantages and disadvantages of the technologies are described in the respective sections.

All archive media described are susceptible to physical damage, such as

* Water,
* Fire or heat development,
* Scratching the media through the drive due to contamination or dropping,
* Crumpling and tearing the media in the tape drive as well
* Sabotage and theft.


Archive media must therefore be stored carefully and protected against the aforementioned influences. In addition, unauthorized access to the data media must be prevented. For this purpose, depending on the specific application scenario of the electronic archive, the application of the data base archive in the "B 2.5" archive archive is used. B 2.7 Protection measures described for the protection of data carriers recommended.



## Examples 
* Floppy diskettes, which are currently available in 3.5-inch sizes, previously 5.25-inch and larger, have a low capacity of 1.44 megabytes (MB). The use of floppy disks as archive medium is only recommended for very small archives in which audit-proof (write-protected) archiving is not required.




