#M 4.443 Logging and monitoring of events in the cloud infrastructure
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In a cloud infrastructure, adequate logging must be provided to detect and respond to technical issues and potential attacks. Since the cloud infrastructure is highly integrated and has central cloud management, central logging must be implemented and block B 5.22 Logging implemented. The primary aim of the monitoring is to control the operation and the collected data are used for reporting to the cloud user (see M 2.522 Reporting and Communication to Cloud Users).

For adequate logging and monitoring, the following aspects should be considered:

* In the context of cloud management, the cloud resources used must be monitored in order to constantly control the resources defined in the planning against current usage and demand.
* Cloud services should be adequately monitored for the availability and other measurable amounts that are the subject of the agreement, depending on the service model and service agreement.
* In the case of public and private cloud offerings, monitoring must be carried out around the clock (24/7) and personnel must be kept available for prompt reactions in the event of attacks or security incidents. Response times are specified in the service agreement. For private cloud offerings, manual interaction may be appropriate in response to business-to-business lead times, as long as it is consistent with cloud service level agreements.
* The cloud service provider is responsible for the logging and monitoring options, which vary depending on the service model. Wirdz. B.Infrastructure as a Service, the corresponding responsibility for logging and monitoring at the platform and application level lies with the cloud user. Here, the cloud service provider can offer the connection to its monitoring systems as an additional service to the cloud users. In this case, the cloud service provider must accordingly implement the protocol evaluation measures (see M 4.430 Analysis of log data).
* In principle, logging must be technically set up at all existing levels of the cloud infrastructure (applications / services, platforms, infrastructure). For the corresponding facilities on the different levels, the logging measures from the building blocks to be modeled from the IT-Grundschutz catalogs are to be used (eg at the IT systems layer the measure M 5.9 logging on the server).
* If there are computer forensics or legal requirements for auditable logging on the part of the cloud service provider or on the part of the cloud user, the cloud service provider must set up integrity-securing mechanisms for the log files. For example, log files can be digitally signed or checksummed to prove integrity. In any case, access rights to protocols can only be assigned very restrictively.
* The access rights to the log files must be evaluated on a regular basis (eg twice a year).
* For administrative traceability, all critical administrative actions must be logged (for example, starting services and changing log files). In this way, the cloud service provider can comprehensibly present to his customer who made which changes to the provided services and, if so, data.
* The following aspects must at least be logged from the point of view of cloud management and must be taken into account in the implementation of measure M 2.499 Planning of logging: network load and connection interruptions, connection times (cloud management process SLA), termination and cloud user logons, in particular, failed login attempts, changes to roles and permissions, critical transactions of the cloud administrators and, if applicable, the privileged user of the cloud user (logging privileged users at the application level is the responsibility of SaaS to the cloud service provider, IaaS or PaaS). Systems to cloud users), recording configuration changes to cloud service profiles to facilitate troubleshooting, cloud resource utilization (CPU, network, memory), attack attempts, unauthorized access attempts, or tampering attempts.
* Client separation should also be used to access the log data so that it can be made available to cloud users, without compromising the confidentiality of other clients' log data, and for use in litigation to allow.




