#M 4.75 Protection of the registry under Windows systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The registry of a Windows system stores all important configuration and initialization information. Among other things, it manages the SAM database, which contains the user and computer accounts. This is especially true for computers that are not connected to any domain, or domain computers that also use local accounts.

The registry of a Windows system consists of several files located in the directory% SystemRoot% / SYSTEM32 / Config. For this reason, the access rights to this directory and the files contained therein should be set as described in M 4.149 File and Share Permissions under Windows and M 4.247 Restrictive Authorization on Client Operating Systems as of Windows Vista.

To increase protection, the following security-related parts of the registry should be specially protected by explicit entry of access rights with the help of the registry editor immediately after the installation of Windows operating systems. This is done using the programs regedt32.exe or regedit.exe in the Windows system directory% SystemRoot% / SYSTEM32. The settings should be such that the group Everyone has access to these parts of the registry only via the access rights Read value, List partial key, Notify and Read access:

* In the HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE section, this applies to the following key: /Software/Windows3.1MigrationStatus (with all subkeys) / Software / Microsoft / RPC (with all subkeys) / Software / Microsoft / Windows NT / CurrentVersion
* Under the key / Software / Microsoft / Windows NT / CurrentVersion / are these entries: + Profile List + AeDebug + Compatibility + Drivers + Embedding + Fonts + FontSubstitutes + GRE_Initialize + MCI + MCI Extensions + Port (with all subkeys) + WOW (with all subclasses) BOWLS)


* and in the area HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT the following area should be protected: / HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT (with all subkeys)


The corresponding settings for access rights to the registry under Windows XP, Vista and Windows 7 can be found in M 4.247 Restrictive authorization assignment for client operating systems as of Windows Vista.

In a Windows Server 2003 domain, access to the HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT, HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE, and HKEY_USERS keys should be configured through Group Policy through the Active Directory.

It is important to proceed carefully, as incorrect settings in the registry can lead to the system not being able to run and possibly not booting after the next boot. The settings mentioned here should therefore first be applied to a test system and critically tested for their performance in the current environment before they are generally used.



## Examples 
* Was access to the registry restricted by the Everyone group?
* Are changes to the registry previously tested in detail on a test system?




