#M 4.439 Virtual security gateways (firewalls) in clouds
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

A cloud infrastructure runs cloud services that cloud users access. For every cloud user, a system is created from the various cloud services that he uses. This system runs on one or more virtual machines. It is referred to below as a user system.

To protect cloud solutions, security gateways (firewalls) should be deployed on the virtual machines to secure communication between user systems and the management servers. In addition, as far as technically possible, the individual clients should also be separated from one another and sealed off from each other.

There are different implementation options, eg. For example, installing a virtual application on the host or as the kernel module of the central component of the virtualization server (hypervisor) for the virtual IT systems. The security gateways (firewalls) control the IP services that can be used between user, management, and external systems. The firewalls must ensure a segmentation of services through the establishment of trust zones and be set as restrictive as possible. The user systems should not be allowed access to the management server. The principle is: Everything that is not expressly allowed is prohibited.

The firewall solution used must ensure through firewall policies that network traffic between virtual machines is monitored and controlled, especially if they move to another virtual host or virtual profiles for new cloud tenants be multiplied. The filtering rules of the firewalls should be tested after the initial configuration to see if allowed events are allowed and unauthorized events are prevented.

The communication of the virtual IT systems with other virtual or physical IT systems should be planned in detail. In doing so, existing security guidelines must be observed. Security gateways or monitoring systems existing in the network can not be bypassed with the means of virtualization. This applies in particular to virtualization products in which network traffic between virtualized IT systems is not necessarily routed via physical networks.

If virtual IT systems need to be connected to multiple networks, it must be ensured that no undesired network connections can be established via them. In particular, no connections should be made between the management networks of the virtualization servers and the networks of the productive virtual IT systems in order to prevent the virtualization servers being compromised. This must be ensured either by a physical or by a logical separation (eg overVLANs).



