#M 4.200 Handling USB storage media
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Via the USB interface a multitude of additional devices can be connected to PCs. Examples are hard drives, CD / DVD writers and memory sticks. USB memory sticks consist of a USB plug and a memory chip. Despite their large storage capacity, they are so handy that they can be produced, for example, in the form of key holders and fit into any trouser pocket. The prices have fallen so much that USB sticks can make floppy disks obsolete even in the home. In modern operating systems, the drivers for USB mass storage devices are already integrated, so that no software installation is necessary for operation. In general, this does not apply exclusively to USB storage devices, but generally to all USB devices that can store data. Among other things, USB printers and USB cameras can be misused to store the data. This is especially true for smart USB devices such as PDAs, which can accept any USB identity if they are equipped with special software.

Similar to floppy disks, information and programs can be unchecked via USB storage media. Therefore, you should handle USB storage media in the same way as you would with conventional storage media. It is relatively easy to prevent access to floppy disk drives (see M 4.4 Appropriate Handling of Drives for Removable Media and External Data Storage). On the other hand, it is very difficult to prevent the operation of USB storage media if the USB interface is used for other devices. For example, notebooks are delivered that only provide the USB interface for connecting a mouse. Therefore, it usually does not make sense to use a USB lock or disable the interface by other mechanical measures. The use of interfaces should therefore be regulated by granting appropriate rights at the level of the operating system or with the help of additional programs. Alternatively, the addition of devices can be monitored. When data memories are connected to external interfaces, the operating system often loads drivers or kernel modules or creates entries in configuration files (such as the Windows registry) that can be detected. For example, after the changes are detected, a log file can be created or an administrator can be notified. However, all this can only be achieved with the help of additional software. This requires either a proprietary development or a third-party product.

The following describes the technical details for Windows 2000 and XP.



## Examples 
* Windows 2000Under Windows 2000, starting the device driver for USB storage media may be disabled. With this option, the standard user will be completely deprived of the ability to add USB mass storage devices because he can not change the startup type of the device driver. Even a standard user with a wiped administrator password will at least make the data theft more difficult. USB sticks are registered under Windows 2000 as USB mass storage devices. The device driver is started as a service for execution. The registry can be used to specify how the service is started (Manual, Automatic or Disabled). For example, under HKLM / System / CurrentControlSet / Services, the USBStor service is provided as the device driver for the USB mass storage devices. The different start types can be set under the subkey Start. Specifying that starting the USBStor device driver is disabled (0x00000004) prevents mass storage devices from being installed or added.
* Windows XPWindows XP behaves differently than Windows 2000. Adding a mass storage device known to the machine causes the driver to load, and if the startup type is set to disabled in the registry, the use of the mass storage device is prevented. However, as soon as a USB mass storage device unknown to the computer is added, new drivers are installed and the settings of the USBStor service are overwritten in the registry. The startup mode is also reset, so that the use of USB mass storage devices can not be prevented globally under Windows XP. From Service Pack 2, Windows XP offers the option of at least writing to USB block storage devices to prevent. This equates the USB interface to a CD-ROM drive that only allows reading a medium. The write access is disabled by creating the HKLM / System / CurrentControlSet / Control / StorageDevicePolicies / WriteProtect registry key, which is set to a value of 1.




