#M 4.362 Secure configuration of Bluetooth
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

In principle, it is recommended to check the configuration preset by the manufacturer and, if possible, to change it, as it is often unsafe:

* Frequently, many services are activated on the Bluetooth devices in the delivery status, so that all options for communication with other devices can be used. Unnecessary services should always be disabled. Sporadically needed services should only be selectively activated when needed and then deactivated again.
* The Bluetooth interfaces of the devices should be deactivated when not in use.
* Bluetooth devices should be configured as open as possible. It is possible, if possible, to set the operating modes non-discoverable, non-connectable and non-pairable or non-bondable.
* The Bluetooth range should be limited to the areas provided for this purpose. For this, the transmission power of Bluetooth devices should be selected as low as possible and as high as required for the functionality. That's how it should look. For example, a Class 3 Bluetooth device can be used on a notebook when connected to a mobile phone just a few meters away.
* If possible, default PINs should be changed immediately.
* PINs should be as long and random as possible.
* Authentication and encryption must be selected appropriately for the protection requirement.
* For use in environments with normal protection requirements, the cryptographic methods provided by Bluetooth, in particular for encryption, are appropriate. This also applies taking into account the previously known weaknesses. If more protection is required, additional measures must be taken that go beyond the capabilities of Bluetooth.
* For strong encryption, the key-length must be at least 64  bits, and the encryption mode may only accept point-to-point encryption. The key length should be as large as possible. Since the length of the encryption key can not be specified by the user, it is recommended that only those devices be used that meet the requirements mentioned.


In addition, it is recommended to check Bluetooth devices regularly with the appropriate tools for hidden services or open ports.

Security patches provided by the device manufacturers or more recent versions of the firmware should be loaded after testing and if there is a need for security.

To ensure that Bluetooth components can be operated safely, all connected devices must be securely configured. Suitable security recommendations for clients are described in the corresponding modules of layer 3.



