#M 4.177 Ensuring the integrity and authenticity of software packages
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Change Manager

Carelessly executing programs that originate from insecure sources can cause considerable damage. Malware, for example, can install password-reading programs, Trojan horses, or backdoors on a computer, or easily damage or erase data.

Typical sources of such malware are, for example, programs that display themselves as screen savers, virus scanners or other utilities, and are sent by e-mail to recipients at different addresses. Often even careless users download the programs from the Internet and install them without verification.

Two examples where avoiding damage by verifying existing digital signatures are a March 2002 incident in which the distribution of the OpenSSH package on the ftp server of the OpenSSH project is compromised and a similar incident in September 2002, in which this happened with the distribution of the mail server sendmail. In both cases, Trojans were infiltrated into the distributions, which could compromise the machine on which the packages were compiled. In both cases, a check of existing digital signatures could reveal the manipulation.

Even if no encryption or signature techniques are used otherwise, the use should be considered to the extent described in this measure.

Software should basically only be installed from well-known sources, especially if it has not been delivered on data carriers but has been downloaded from the internet, for example. This is especially true for updates or patches that are typically no longer delivered to disk. Most manufacturers and distributors offer test totals for this purpose, which allow at least a check of the integrity of a package. The checksums are usually published on the websites of the manufacturers or sent by e-mail. In order to verify the integrity of a downloaded program or archive file, the published checksum is then compared with a checksum locally generated by a corresponding program.

If checksums are offered for a software package, these should be checked before installing the package.

A verification of the authenticity can not be done with checksums. Therefore, in many cases, digital signatures are offered for programs or packages. The public keys needed to verify the signature are usually available on the websites of the manufacturer or public-key servers. Often the checksums are generated with one of the programs PGP or GnuPG.

If the test reveals that this is a valid signature of the respective manufacturer, the result is a significantly higher degree of trustworthiness for the parcel than merely the presence of a check sum.

The package management system RPM (Redhat Package Manager), which is widely used in Linux distributions, as well as the package management system of the Debian distribution, already has an integrated verification function.

Sometimes even the built-in software update mechanisms of the respective operating system or application software do not perform checksum comparisons. If possible, however, a checksum check should be performed on each software package before importing.

Furthermore, not all checksum comparisons can be performed without the assistance of the users, since the checksums, signatures or certificates required for this are not provided by the manufacturers in a uniform manner. Therefore, manual verification on the manufacturer's site or customization of the URLs in the patching and modification software is often necessary.

If digital signatures are available for a software package, they should always be checked before installing the package.

A fundamental problem with the use of digital signatures is the verification of the authenticity of the key itself. If the public key does not bear the signature of a known trustworthy person or organization (such as a trust center) the signatures generated with the appropriate private key are not a real guarantee that the software package is actually from the developer, manufacturer, or distributor. Therefore, if the public keys are not certified, they should be obtained from a source other than the software package itself, for example, from a manufacturer's CD-ROM, from another mirror server where the package can also be downloaded, or from a public key server.

To verify checksums and digital signatures, the corresponding programs must be available locally. Administrators should be aware of the importance and validity of checksums and digital signatures. In addition, administrators must have plenty of time to use the appropriate programs in their daily work and familiarize themselves with the operation.

It is not recommended to receive patches or e-mails for various reasons. The origin of emails is difficult to determine without the use of additional security mechanisms and the recipient addresses in the institutions are often distribution lists, whose address is easy to guess. In addition, patches and changes can be very large by now. Many companies and authorities have limited the size of e-mail attachments and may also prohibit the acceptance of viable attachments. Furthermore, the large amounts of data unnecessarily burden the e-mail systems. Therefore, a timely availability of the software changes, which can be critical especially for security patches, can not be sufficiently ensured via e-mail.

Furthermore, some manufacturers offer to send changes and patches to the customer directly on data carriers. In this case too, the patches and changes should be verified as much as possible by means of checksums or digital signatures, as sender information on mailpieces and manufacturer logos on CDs and DVDs can easily be deleted.

Another aspect of verifying the authenticity of the update may be news published by the manufacturer on its website, newsletters or similar channels. Some manufacturers have established cycles and timepoints for which information about changes is usually systematically published.



