#M 4.21 Preventing the unauthorized acquisition of administrator rights
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The su command allows any user to obtain super user rights if he has the appropriate password. Since the number of failed attempts at su is not limited, there is an increased risk that the password will be found through systematic testing using appropriate programs. Therefore su should only be accessible to the super user. Alternatively, a modified su could be installed that would limit the number of unsuccessful attempts, increase the wait time to the next su invocation after each unsuccessful login attempt, and after a certain number of attempts Failure to execute the option and / or the terminal is locked. Any use of the su command should be logged.

If the system allows it, the login name of the super user can be called other than root. As additional super-user logins, however, only administrative logins should be created (see M 2.33 Distribution of administration activities under Unix).

The administrator is only allowed to work from the console to prevent his password from becoming known when the line is being listened to. On Solaris, for example, this can be accomplished by configuring the / etc / default / login file accordingly. Alternatively, security features can be used to prevent the scanning of administrator passwords. Examples of suitable mechanisms are Secure Shell (see measure M 5.64 Secure Shell) and one-time passwords (see measure M 5.34 Using one-time passwords).

With BSD Unix, root can only log in to terminals that are marked as secure in the file / etc / ttytab. If this option is removed for all terminal entries, an administrator can log on to a terminal only with the command su as root. It should be considered to set up a user group to which the execution of the command su is restricted.

For BSD Unix, if the console is marked as secure in the file / etc / ttytab, no password will be requested when booting to single-user mode, so this entry must be removed.

The file / etc / ftpusers contains the login names, which can not be registered via ftp. In ftp, the passwords are transmitted over an unprotected plaintext connection. Therefore, administrative entries (root, bin, daemon, sys, adm, lp, smtp, uucp, nuucp, etc.) should be entered here. For some standard installations, root is not in this file.

If a user or a user program executes a super user file (files with owner root and set s bit), this user or this program will receive super user files when executed. Right. This is required for certain applications, but it may also be abusive. Therefore, it is important to ensure that only the most necessary program files are super-user files and no further super-user files are added by third parties.



## Examples 
* Is the su command restricted to the super-user role or modified to limit the number of unsuccessful login attempts or increase the latency between attempts?
* Is every use of the su command logged?
* Is the use of appropriate security mechanisms to prevent the detection of administrator passwords (eg line encryption, one-time passwords)?
* Is (via / etc / ftpusers) preventing administrative access (eg root) from being logged on via ftp?
* Is the unauthorized execution of superuser files prevented?




