#M 4.98 Minimize communication through packet filters
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Packet filters are IT systems with special software that filter the information of the lower layers of the OSI model and forward or intercept packets according to special rules (see M 2.74 Suitable selection of a packet filter).

The configuration of a packet filter used to protect Internet servers should be very restrictive in order to maximize resilience against attacks. Although a well-configured Internet server (see M 4.95 Minimum Operating System) should protect itself against attacks, the software of an Internet server is much more complex and error-prone than that of a security-designed packet filter. The packet filter should only pass through those communication channels that are necessary for the function of the Internet server. In particular, not only the communication that is initiated from the Internet to the Internet server, but also the communication that the Internet server is allowed to set up towards the Internet must be controlled. For many attacks it is a necessary condition that the attacked computer can establish new connections to the Internet. If this is not possible, many attacks will not succeed. For example, an attack on news servers was widespread in 1997, in which the attacker could receive important system information via e-mail about an error in a news daemon. Had the attacked computers not been authorized to send e-mails, the attacker would not have received any feedback and the attack would not have been successful.

Here are some examples of configuring packet filters for different Internet servers.

* Web server: Internet may be used on port 80, or 443 f rSSL / TLS, the web server TCP web server may access the Internet from port 80, or 443 for SSL / TLS, TCP / ack, nothing else!
* News server: Newsfeed servers may be on port 119 of the news server TCPNews server is allowed on port 119 on newsfeed server TCP / ackNews server allowed on port 119 of the newsfeed server TCPNewsfeed server may request from port 119 on the news server TCP / ack
* Mail server (Provider provides e-mail gateway): Mail server of the provider is allowed on port 25 of the mail server TCPMailserver is allowed on port 25 on mail server of the provider TCP / ackMailserver allowed on port 25 of the mail server of the provider TCPMailserver of the provider is allowed by port 25 on mail server TCP / ack
* Mail server (own sending to the Internet): Internet may be allowed on port 25 of the mail server TCP mail server is allowed to access the Internet from port 25 TCP / ack mail server is allowed on port 25 in the Internet TCP Internet can be used from port 25 to the mail server TCP / ack
* DNS server: Resolving DNS server is allowed on port 53 of Advertising DNS serverUDPAdvertising DNS server is allowed on all ports of Resolving DNS server UDP (only for stateless firewall necessary) Resolving DNS server is allowed on port 53 of its forwarder UDPForwarder may be used on all ports of Resolving DNS server UDP (only stateless firewall necessary) External network allowed on port 53 of the Advertising DNS server UDPAdvertising DNS server is allowed on all ports external DNS server UDP and TCP (stateless firewall only necessary) Internal network is allowed on port 53 of Resolving DNS server UDPResolving DNS server is allowed on all ports of internal network UDP (only stateless firewall needed) Primary DNS server is allowed on port 53 of its Secondary DNS server UDP and TCPSecondary DNS server is allowed on port 53 of its Primary DNS server UDP and TCP


If only these rules are implemented, a communication recording from the Internet to the released services is limited. If the communication partners can be further restricted (see examples above), an attacker can not establish a direct connection to the Internet server.

Note: The above rules can cause the Internet server can not be reached from any computer because ICMP is not allowed to pass. Therefore it is recommended to pass the icmp subtype icmp unreachable from the internet to the internet server.



