#M 4.227 Use of a local NTP server for time synchronization
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In many situations, it is important for networked systems that all machines involved in a task have a correct system time. This is of central importance, in particular when evaluating logging information, for example in order to be able to correctly correlate error messages which indicate an attack via the network, or if synchronization problems occur in applications which are distributed over several computers. Even distributed file systems and centralized authentication services rely on time synchronization.

For the correct setting of the system time most operating systems offer the possibility to access an external time server via the protocol NTP (Network Time Protocol Version 3, RFC 1305) or SNTP (Simple Network Time Protocol Version 4, RFC 2030) , Windows computers in an Active Directory infrastructure also balance the system time with the domain controller.

There is a distributed infrastructure of public NTP time servers on the Internet. In Germany, for example, the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB) in Braunschweig and various universities offer such a service.

Since NTP is a clear text protocol without cryptographic backups, it should only be used within its own network. If the time server infrastructure is to be used on the Internet, then a separate computer should be provided for this, which is the only one that obtains the NTP information from the selected time servers. The computers in the local network then synchronize their system clock with the local NTP proxy. At the security gateway, NTP should only be enabled for the NTP proxy server in this case. In particular, in networks with high protection requirements, not all devices should individually make requests directly to time servers on the Internet via NTP.

Alternatively, a computer in the internal network equipped with a radio clock module can be used as a local time server. If in doubt, this solution should be given preference.

If external sources (radio clocks, public NTP time servers, etc.) are used for the time synchronization, it must be ensured that the received time information is not accepted unchecked. The software of the local time server or NTP proxy must perform a plausibility check before accepting the received time information and forwarding it to the other computers in the network. An example of such a plausibility check is that sudden changes that exceed a predetermined maximum time difference are not accepted.



