#M 4.432 Secure configuration of server services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

After the operating system of the server has been installed (see M 2.318 Secure installation of an IT system) and configured, the actual server service must be set up. Server services are well-engineered processes that provide certain functions to the clients. Examples include web, e-mail, and directory services.

Server services can be split into two different categories. Server services of the first category make their function freely available on the net without the users having to authenticate themselves for this purpose. Examples of this are DNS, DHCP or NTP servers. The second category, however, requires an authentication of the user before using the service, eg. to protect confidential information from unauthorized access. Examples include file, e-mail, SSH, or RDP servers. Whether and which form of authentication is required for the use of a server service depends on the type of service, the configuration of the respective service and the protection requirements of the data.

In general, all existing but not required server services should be uninstalled, the server should only provide the mandatory services. In addition to the actual server service, a server service is generally also required for administration on the IT system. More detailed information can be found in M 4.97 One service per server.

Before the new server service z. If it is not already installed, its documentation should be viewed if it is not already installed. Among other things, it should be determined which files are needed for the operation of the service and which processes are started. Only then should the configuration of the actual server service be started.



## Examples 
* executable files that can be used to start or manage the server service, as well as various helper applications that may be useful for the operation of the server,
* Configuration files or entries that control the behavior of the server service
* Log files in which the Server service drops certain events that have occurred, and
* Payload with the actual information provided by the server service.




