#M 4.254 Secure use of wireless keyboards and mice
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Wireless keyboards and mice are peripherals that communicate wirelessly via radio or infrared interfaces with a receiver module that is connected to the computer via the COM port, PS2 interface, or USB port.

Since there is no galvanic connection to the computer, wireless input devices must have their own power supply in the form of batteries or rechargeable batteries. For a long service life, a low power consumption of these devices is absolutely necessary. According to the current state of the art, devices with infrared technology have a higher energy consumption than those with a radio interface.

The operating frequencies of the systems are all in license-free frequency ranges. Most radio stations and radio keyboards transmit in the 27 MHz band and have two radio channels, some wireless devices work in the 2.4 GHz range.

The range of the radio systems is typically 2 to 5 meters. Here, in contrast to the systems based on infrared technology, no direct line of sight between transmitter and receiver is necessary. The range is extremely dependent on the environmental conditions. Other devices transmitting in the same frequency range as eg. Radiotelephones, radio toys, radio-controlled drives for garage doors or WLAN connections in the 2.4 GHz range can disrupt the operation of the systems and reduce the range. Metallic obstacles (steel reinforcements, steel cabinets and the like) can lead to failure of the technology.

Manufacturers of wireless applications specify distances as ranges, in which the data transmission of their devices functions safely. However, in the case of devices that are equipped only with cheap reception technology, this functionality range is generally smaller than the distance in which the transmitted signals are still received, recorded and evaluated with the aid of directional antennas and high-quality receiver electronics can. Therefore, a wear hazard at a distance greater than the functional range can not be ruled out.

A problem of the radio-based input devices is the lack of security. The transmitted radio signals can be received and recorded by third parties. If these wireless signals are not encrypted, these data can be easily evaluated. There are numerous wireless keypad systems on the market, which completely unscramble the signals resulting from the keystrokes and thus transfer them to third parties. Often, a second receiver from the same manufacturer is sufficient to make the received signals visible on another computer.

Systems that communicate on the basis of infrared technology usually use the Infrared Data Association's IrDA standard. The IrDA standard does not specify any security mechanisms to prevent the traffic from being monitored. The data is only saved at log level against transmission errors by means of checksum procedures. Security mechanisms such as authentication, cryptographic integrity protection and encryption are not available. To some extent, the transmission is protected by the very limited range of the infrared rays and the required line of sight. However, the security level of these systems is below that of the wired input devices due to the possible stray radiation.

Some manufacturers offer products with proprietary security solutions. No statement can be made about the security of such solutions, as the algorithms used are usually kept secret by the manufacturers.

To ensure that identical devices can be operated side by side, most manufacturers have equipped their devices with different identification numbers. Different principles are used, eg. From a pool of IDs, a specific value is fixed for a device or the ID is changed by the software when the battery is changed.

The first products are available on the market that communicate via Bluetooth. With proper implementation and configuration of the Bluetooth security features, they generally provide greater protection than proprietary radio systems.

In conclusion, it should be mentioned that keyboards are subject to guarding due to the electromagnetic radiation of the keyboard matrix and the connection cable (see also M 4.89 Radiation Safety). This also applies to wireless keyboards. However, in the case of wired keyboards, the cir- cuitry risk is generally much less than the risk of disconnection due to the use of radio communication links with wireless input devices.

Numerous wireless keyboards and wireless transmit their information via wireless or infrared light without security precautions to the computers. Without much effort, this information can be read by third parties or even manipulated if necessary. The use of such systems is therefore generally discouraged from the point of view of information security.

For systems with proprietary security measures that do not have a security certificate, the security value is unenforceable. The user runs the risk that the non-evaluated solution of the manufacturer provides only minimal security, but which is far from sufficient to effectively protect his data.

Wireless systems based on standards such as Bluetooth, where security mechanisms have been correctly implemented and activated, offer a higher level of protection in comparison. In sensitive areas, however, wireless keyboards, wireless mice and infrared products should not be used.



