#M 4.107 Use of manufacturer and developer resources
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Most manufacturers of IT systems or IT components offer a variety of support and information services to users of their products. This includes, for example, assistance for problem solving (support, hotline, updates, patches, etc.) and information about security solutions (web pages, newsgroups, mailing lists, etc.). Some of these offers are free while others are not.

service provider

The offers are typically from the respective manufacturers, especially with standard software. However, there are also numerous offers from service providers. This is especially true for open source software, for which the developers often do not offer commercial and contractually guaranteed support. However, many open source software developers name qualified external service providers in their information offerings. Often employees of the service providers are also involved in the development of open source software. As a result, service providers are able to offer support services of a quality that corresponds to classic manufacturer support. Even manufacturers of proprietary software often work closely with service providers and identify or service these service providers as partners.

When procuring IT systems or products, it should be considered which additional support services should be used in addition, especially if this causes ongoing costs. It must also be considered whether the manufacturer or a service provider is to be commissioned. When selecting a service provider, it should be noted that a larger service provider can handle multiple applications. However, larger service providers are often not specialized enough to provide equivalent quality support for each product.

It should be ensured that for all IT systems and products used, regular checks are made as to whether new information is available on safety issues and solutions from manufacturers or other sources. This is especially important for all server operating systems, as a vulnerability on a server can cause much more damage than on a client.

Security-specific updates

Security-specific updates should be obtained only from trusted sources, such as the manufacturer, developers, trusted service providers, or certifiers (see also M 2.35 Obtaining Information on System Vulnerabilities). The updates are to be checked by means of cryptographic methods, as far as the files are encrypted or signed.

In order to be able to access safety-relevant information at any time, an overview should be kept of all operating systems used and all important IT products. This should show under which WWW addresses security-specific updates and patches or information can be found. These addresses can usually be found in the product documentation. Very often on the web page of manufacturers or providers directly to this information referenced. Experience has shown that links often change, so it is important to check them regularly for correctness and, if necessary, to update them.



