#M 4.466 Use of virus protection programs on smartphones, tablets and PDAs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Antivirus programs for smartphones, tablets, and PDAs typically have a different protection feature than their counterparts on other clients (see G5.193 Insufficient protection against malicious programs on smartphones, tablets, and PDAs).

Malware protection programs must be selected in accordance with the institution's need for protection and taking into account the requirements for protection against loss and theft of the terminal (see M 6.159 Prevention of loss and theft of smartphones, tablets and PDAs) , They should be centrally installed and set up.

The programs should update the signature database daily and perform a full scan at least once a week. Since such a scan can consume the processor resources of the terminal for a certain amount of time, it should only take place at times when the terminal is used little or not at all. The protection program should examine all file types and move infected files to the quarantine folder for later analysis. If there is no quarantine function or if further analysis of the malicious software is not possible for other reasons, the program should be set up so that it immediately deletes the infected files. In any case, the IT support or information security management must be informed about such an event. The infected device should be examined more closely for further malicious programs as soon as possible using the ITIT operation.

When a smartphone, tablet or PDA is connected to a PC and data is stored on the mobile device, the protection program should examine the new data as soon as possible. In addition, it should also newly installed applications immediately check for malware and uninstall a virus detection.

An anti-virus program should be selected that locally tests network traffic for malware while surfing the Internet. Users must be advised that they can surf the Internet only with this protection. If the terminals are connected to the network of the institution via VPN and if all the network traffic in the institution is already being examined for malicious programs, network traffic does not have to be examined locally.



