#M 4.237 Secure basic configuration of an IT system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The basic settings made by the manufacturer or distributor of an operating system are usually not optimized for security, but for easy installation and commissioning, and often to ensure that every user can access as many features of the operating system as easily as possible. When using IT systems (whether as a client or server) in public agencies or companies, this is often not desirable.

The first step in the basic configuration must therefore be to check the basic settings and, if necessary, to adapt them to the specifications of the security policy. The basic configuration is of course relatively dependent on the operating system used. For this reason, the operating system-specific components contain correspondingly more detailed measures.

Goals of a secure basic configuration should be that

* the system is protected against simple attacks   over the network,
* no normal user can gain access to sensitive data through pure curiosity or even accidental access, which are not intended for him,
* a normal user during normal system operation due to sheer operator error or carelessness (what happens if I delete this file?) can cause serious damage to the system or other users' data, and that
* For the work of system administrators, the impact of minor errors is limited as much as possible.


The settings that should be checked and adjusted in the basic configuration concern in particular the following areas:

* Settings for system administratorsThe identifiers under which system administrators work should be particularly secure. This applies, for example, to the settings for the user environment such as
* Search paths for programs and files,
* Environment variables and the
* Configuration of certain programs. These settings should be checked and adjusted if necessary. In addition, the user directory settings should be selected by system administrators in a way that normal users will not have access to.
* Settings for the system directories and files With the basic configuration, it must be checked whether the authorizations for system directories and files comply with the specifications of the security policy. On a server, relatively restrictive settings should be selected for the permissions of the system directories and files.
* User Account Settings As part of the basic configuration, you should check which default settings apply to user accounts. The settings may need to be adjusted according to the security policy. This essentially affects the same parameters as for system administrator accounts, but for normal users, other settings may be useful.
* User Database Cleanup Often, when installing an operating system by default, a larger number of user accounts are set up, which are not always necessary for operation. Therefore, it should be checked in the basic configuration, which user accounts are really needed. Unnecessary user accounts should either be deleted or at least deactivated so that the system can not log on to the system under the relevant account.
* Checking Services The default installation of an operating system often includes a number of programs and services that are not normally needed and that can be a source of security vulnerabilities for that very reason. This applies in particular to network services. After installation, it should therefore be checked which services are installed and activated on the system. Unnecessary services should be deactivated or completely uninstalled. Checking for running services can on the one hand be carried out locally with the means of the installed operating system and, on the other hand, in network services from outside via a port scan from another system. By a combination of both methods can be largely excluded that the system offers even more unwanted network services.
* Settings for accessing the network In the basic configuration, settings for access to the network and important external services should also be made and documented. This applies for example (if not already done during installation):
* Assigning the IP address and configuring the basic network parameters or configuring access to a server that distributes network settings automatically, for example via Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP). However, servers are denied the use of DHCP.
* Configuration of access to a DNS server and, if necessary, other name services and the
* Configure access to distributed file systems, databases or other external services.
* Additional protection provided by a local packet filter server and clients with high protection requirements should be secured with a local packet filter or a personal firewall, in addition to protection by the organization-wide security gateways or packet filters that segment the internal network. Corresponding functionalities are present in practically all modern operating systems. Within the framework of the basic configuration, at least for servers with a high protection requirement, a corresponding protection by a local packet filter should be realized. Also for servers with normal protection needs, protection by a local packet filter is recommended. If necessary, a more liberal configuration can be chosen in this case. For clients, the use of a local packet filter or a personal firewall is recommended if they have a high or very high protection requirement with regard to confidentiality or integrity. More information on setting up a local packet filter can be found in M 4.238 a local packet filter, to a personal firewall in M 5.91 use of personal firewalls for clients.
* Deactivating Call Home Features Some operating systems and applications send information, such as errors that have occurred or system configuration, directly to the manufacturer so that they can tailor the product to the needs of their users in the future. For this purpose, a data connection is established via data networks, such as the Internet, to the servers of the manufacturer. Such a form of data drainage can be critical, especially if the users are not informed about the frequency and content of the data transfer. As a general rule, this often unwanted exchange of information should be prevented. If and how information is sent can usually be found in the license agreements of the software used. Many applications offer the option of deactivating this call home function. Only in justified exceptional cases should this remain activated. After updates, it should be checked whether the call home function is still deactivated. Local packet filters or the central security gateway (firewall) can also be used to prevent the connection with the manufacturer. For example, based on the destination addresses or port numbers, the data connections could be rejected. It should be noted that the consideration of all applications is complex and automatic update functions, if necessary, are then often no longer available.
* Disabling Unnecessary InterfacesIn a basic configuration, all existing or potentially reusable interfaces are usually enabled. Often, not all of them are needed and should therefore be removed or disabled. Some of these interfaces may also pose potential security issues that must be addressed through appropriate organizational or technical security measures. Interfaces whose use should be controlled include Bluetooth, WLAN, Firewire, eSATA (external SATA HDD connection) and IrDA (Infrared Data Association). What has to be considered, can be found in the corresponding measures.
* Directory-based execution controlThere is a directory-based or partition-based execution control on current operating systems. The execution rights for all files in a directory and all subdirectories are suppressed. For example, on Windows-based operating systems, this can be accomplished through appropriate Group Policy with software restriction policies. On Linux systems, the hard disk can be suitably partitioned and integrated with appropriate mount options ro (read only) and noexec (no execute). For high protection requirements, there are also tools that define file-related permissions in the operating system. The directory-based or partition-based execution control, with the appropriate configuration, ensures that users
* from directories to which you can write, can not start programs and
* can not write to directories from which they can start applications. This makes it difficult for users to run a program file that they have downloaded from the Internet or copied from an USB stick.
* MonitoringTo respond to critical system events, they can be monitored by monitoring. For this, status information is usually retrieved from a central IT system on which the events are evaluated. However, the interface needed to retrieve the system events from the IT system can often change system settings of the operating system, such as: Eg via SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol). If such a modification is not desired, these features should be disabled.
* Protection against Buffer Overflows To protect the operating system and application against possible buffer overflows, appropriate memory protection mechanisms should be activated, as long as these are supported by the hardware (CPU) and operating system used. For example, Executable Space Protection (ESP) prevents programs from running out of unauthorized areas of memory.
* Creating an integrity database After completing the basic configuration, it is recommended that you create an integrity database with an appropriate tool. For some operating systems, such programs are already included in the scope of a standard installation. The integrity database should not be stored on the system itself, but on a read-only volume (such as CD-R) or another, more secure system. If there is a suspicion of system compromise, the generated checksums can be used to identify files modified by an attacker. In the regular checks of the system integrity (see also M4.93 Regular integrity check) this database serves as a reference for a defined, safe state of the system.


It should be documented which settings have been checked as part of the basic configuration as well as if and how they have been changed. The documentation must be such that, in an emergency, someone other than the actual administrator can understand what has been done without prior knowledge of the system based on the documentation. Ideally, it should be possible to restore the system with the help of documentation alone.



