#M 4.128 Secure operation of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

Secure operation of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment includes all controls necessary to maintain the functionality of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment. This includes the administration of Lotus Notes / Domino, the implementation of upgrades and migrations, the regular backup and, if necessary, data archiving as well as the activities for monitoring the operation and security of the platform. Changes to the services that take place outside of upgrades and migrations (such as the activation of previously unused services, the commissioning of new databases, and the like) are comparable to the upgrade and migrations procedure. This includes compliance with the documentation requirements (including the system-side logging of the changes made and archiving of the logs) and adherence to the requirements for critical administrative activities (eg four-eyes principle or approval procedure for Services or components such as databases or interfaces).



## Examples 
* As of Domino Release 5 and ODS (On-Disc Structure) 41, Lotus Notes / Domino supports database transaction logging. This is important not only because of the advanced capabilities of incremental backup and backup of transaction logs, but also because of repairing corrupted databases by importing the backup and transaction logs.
* Transaction logging must be set up for all databases with high protection requirements in terms of availability or integrity, in particular for the system databases of Lotus Notes / Domino. In particular, the parameters logging type, automatic fixup of damaged databases and performance at runtime or at restart for the intended use must be configured appropriately.
* In the newer versions of Domino, it is possible to store Lotus Notes / Domino databases in a DB2 database and access them through the Lotus Notes / Domino platform. If this option is used, the Lotus / Notes Domino backup concept must also include backing up the DB2 databases used.
* Data backups of complex operating environments with extensive dependencies, eg. For example, by using replication, it is best not to do it manually, but using the appropriate backup tools. Tools from the manufacturer of the platform to be backed up (in this case, Tivoli Storage Manager and Tivoli Data Protection for Domino) are often tuned to the specifics of the platform, so the incompatibility risks are lower than with third-party tools.




