#M 4.334 SMB Message Signing and Samba
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Samba supports version 3 Server Message Block (SMB) message signing. SMB message signing adds a signature to every packet. So the client knows that the package comes from the right server and the server that a package came from the right client. Without SMB message signing, the SMB protocol is vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. Microsoft has been supporting SMB Message Signing since Microsoft Windows NT 4.0 Service Pack 3 (SP3) and Microsoft Windows 98.

The client signing configuration parameter is set to auto while server signing is set to disabled. These preferences in smb.conf are very similar to those of the Microsoft operating systems (see Microsoft Knowledge Base Article # 887429). The following differences should be noted:

* Windows 2000 in the role of Domain Controller (DC) enables SMB Message Signing for the Server Service.
* Windows 2003 in the role of Domain Controller requires SMB Message Signing for the Server Service.


By default, Microsoft has enabled SMB Message Signing only on domain controllers because SMB message signing has a significant negative impact on performance. When transferring small amounts of data, the performance losses can usually be neglected. When large amounts of data are transferred, performance can be reduced by as much as half in some situations.

It is recommended that you follow Microsoft's instructions unless you are in conflict with the existing security policies in the Information Network. If Samba is used as domain controller, server signing = yes should be set in the configuration file smb.conf. On the other hand, if Samba is used exclusively as a file server, then the default setting should be retained.



