#M 4.351 Securing zone transfers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A zone transfer synchronizes the domain information between a PrimaryDNS server and one or more Secondary DNS servers. The Primary DNS server reads the domain information from the master files and transfers it to the Secondary DNS server via zone transfers. For a zone transfer two security aspects should be considered:

* It must be ensured that the zone transfer between the Primary and the Secondary DNS server really works, and
* No unauthorized zone transfers may be possible.


In order to ensure the functionality of a zone transfer, the correct functionality should be checked after each change to the zone transfer settings. For this purpose, for example, a zone transfer can be carried out. Thereafter, the log files are used to check whether errors have occurred. In the case of less extensive zones, it is possible to compare the domain information managed by the primary DNS server with that of the secondary DNS server.

To prevent unauthorized persons from initiating a zone transfer and thus receiving the entire domain information of a zone, zone transfers must be configured so that they are only possible between Primary and Secondary DNS servers. This must at least be done via the restriction to the IP addresses of the DNS servers, even safer it is to use Transaction Signatures (TSIG). The restrictions on IP addresses are as follows: The Primary DNS server must be configured for each zone that contains the Secondary DNS servers. This is done by specifying one or more IP addresses. On the secondary DNS server (s) for a zone, you must configure which of them is the responsible primary DNS server.

Securing zone transfers via TSIG offers a higher level of security. TSIG defines symmetric keys on the primary DNS server and the secondary DNS server (s). When a zone transfer is started, TSIG generates a hash message authentication code (HMAC) from the query's binaries using the symmetric key and a hash function. The HMAC will be attached to the request. The secondary DNS server, which also knows the key, calculates the HMAC independently. Voices received and calculated HMAC match, the zone transfer is performed, otherwise this is rejected. This method also protects against IP spoofing, in contrast to IP address-based security. However, with TSIG, it should be noted that not every DNS server product makes this functionality available or may have implemented it differently from the standard.



