#M 4.444 Patch management for cloud components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Change Manager

All cloud components must be integrated into patch and change management (see component B 1.14 Patch and change management).

For patch management and patch component installation for cloud components, responsibilities must be taken into account in accordance with M 2.423 Determination of Responsibilities for Patch and Change Management.

As the complexity of cloud infrastructures increases, it is common for people in different parts of a cloud service provider to have different patching responsibilities. For example, there may be different responsibilities for

* Networks (Infrastructure Components, Routers, Switchesetc.)
* operating systems
* Virtualization components
* applications
* Security components (eg security gateway, malware protection, intrusion detection).


It is necessary to inform the software manufacturers and publishers of patches regularly about new patches (see also M 2.35 Obtaining information about system vulnerabilities).

Patch management is the framework process for controlling a consistently adequate level of security through current patch levels. Detailed instructions on how to patch an application are included in Measure M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates.

Patch management in Clouds involves several subtasks (see M 4.446 Introduction to Cloud Management):

* Patching cloud services (PaaSoderSaaS)
* Patching of underlying cloud infrastructure (IaaS, PaaSundSaaS) including access components such as self-service portal
* Patch the cloud management server and the cloud management software
* Patch cloud resources and element managers


When patching cloud services, it is recommended to proceed with change requests as per M 2.422. With regard to the aspects Impact Assessment and Schedule (planned date for the implementation of the change), the cloud management has to consider:

* Patch and change management should be governed by cloud-based contracts / Tuesday agreements (SLAs).
* These arrangements for patch and change management may include the regulation of standard changes (see measure M 3.66 Basic concepts of patch and change management).
* During patching, cloud services may not be available at times, or with reduced functionality or reduced performance, with an impact on the ability of cloud users to work.
* Even with the best possible preparation, unforeseen effects are possible, so that the function or availability of cloud services is impaired after patching. Eventually, a change must even be made retrocessory.
* Because of these potential impacts, cloud users should be informed in advance about upcoming patches, the schedule for them, and possible implications.
* The obligation to inform about pending patches and to vote with the cloud user must be contractually defined (SLA).


The different service models determine the areas of influence and thus the responsibility of the cloud service provider and the cloud user. In the case of IaaS, the cloud service provider's patching capabilities are limited. Responsibility for patch and change management at the operating system level, platform level and application level lies with the cloud user. These responsibilities should be clearly defined in the SLAs.

End-to-end virtualization in cloud computing provides benefits for patch and change management. Load balancing and agility of virtual resources enable new patching strategies. So kannz. For example, the operating system may be patched under a SaaS offering without disrupting the availability of the cloud service. In addition, the cloud management solution allows the use of patching strategies that largely automate the process of making changes. Basically, an automation is used to roll out current patch status. For example, we recommend using cloud service profiles. However, it must be ensured that the configurations of the cloud resources are not affected by new patches. All changes should be planned, tested, approved and documented in accordance with M 2.221 Change Management or M 2.273 Timely Patching of Security-Related Patches and Updates. If complete testing is not possible on special test systems, at least the configurations must be checked in advance for possible effects of patches.

When you roll out an application for a new tenant, the software used for that tenant should be brought up to date with the patch before it can be accessed from outside the application.

In practice, the patch state of the operating systems and applications offered in the cloud should be managed via a so-called update manager of the cloud or virtualization product. This requires configuring which updates to run on operating systems and applications on the virtualization hosts and virtual machines.



