#M 4.71 Restrictive handling of database links
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Via database links (DB links) it is possible to access from one database within a DBMS to the data from another database, possibly in another DBMS. In order to ensure adequate protection of the data, this technique should only be used within the framework of an appropriate authorization concept. Among other things, this concept requires the control of a user's authorizations when using DB links.

In this way, it can be specified that a user in principle has the option of accessing a foreign database if the same user ID exists there with which the user logs on to the local database. More extensive protection is provided by the possibility of creating a DB link with explicit specification of a user ID and a password.

The following aspects should be regulated with regard to DB links in an authorization concept:

* In general, only the administrator should have the right to create DB links using the appropriate CREATE commands. In particular, this applies to DB links that can be used by all database users (so-called PUBLIC DB links). The authorization to create DB links, on the other hand, should not be assigned for normal user IDs.
* The number of user DB links that can be used in parallel should be limited in order to be able to control the load on the database server (see M 4.73 Setting upper limits for selectable data sets). Otherwise, an attacker could exploit this to reduce the throughput of the database servers or even overburden them completely.
* A documentation of the DB links created by the administrator is essential. In addition to the connection type (using a special user ID or assuming that the respective current database ID was also created for the linked database), the documentation should also contain which user group is able to enter the corresponding DB Link to use.




