#M 4.479 Protection of policies in an SOA
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Service-oriented architectures (SOA) organize service access and permissions across different SOA platforms using policies. They must already exist before a service user acts in an SOA environment or a service provider makes information available on an SOA platform. In an information domain, only one policy can be implemented. In other words, an information domain is defined by its policy. If a policy is enforced on all SOA platforms of an information domain, this forces a local Policy Enforcement Point (PEP) proSOA platform to be used.

The guidelines must be centrally available for all SOA platforms of an information domain, eg. In a service repository. They are typically set and deployed in a Web Services Description Language (WSDL) statement. By modifying such a WSDL file on the provider or consumer side, an incorrect policy can be deduced. In order for the policy settings to be unmanageable, a signature value must be hard-bound to the WSDL file, e.g. Eg via XMLStrong Binding.

Multiple information domains can be coupled together so that a service user of domain A can access a service provider of domain B. In this case, the guidelines must be agreed between the administrators of the individual domains so that a service user does not unjustifiably accumulate rights as a result of several consecutive accesses to domains. The procedure and the resulting guidelines should be traceable.



