#M 4.236 Central administration of laptops
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The mobile terminal administration is not an easy task, especially for large institutions and for users who frequently move around the world. There are tools that facilitate central administration and the implementation of security policies. Central administration not only distributes software and information, but also enforces the organization's own security policies, eg. for authentication, access or backup.

When using software for centralized laptop management, the synchronization of the laptops is then typically no longer done with a local terminal, but with a server. As a result, data can be matched not only from one station, but from all connected to the server.

When synchronizing via a server, security specifications can also be technically forced by resetting security-relevant settings to their default values. Typical features of such tools for centralized laptop management include:

* Data backups can be done centrally without the need for users to worry about it. Likewise, specifications can be made as to when or how often data must be saved or synchronized and which boundary conditions must be met.
* It is possible to receive feedback on the status of the laptops and to perform diagnostics remotely.
* User profiles can be created to simplify user administration.
* Organizationally specific password rules and other security rules can be specified.


A tool for centralized laptop management should support as many laptop operating systems as possible in the organization so that multiple such tools do not have to be used in parallel. The same is of course also true for the groupware and e-mail platform used.



