#M 4.359 Overview of components of a web server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to make a web offer available, both hardware and software components are needed. Depending on the functionality of the web application, different server types are required. The basic components are the web server and the web application server. Typically, the services for the web server and for the web application server are installed on different IT systems. For a persistent data storage of the contents mostly database servers are used. In addition, directory servers are often used for simple operations, and clients can access their data only for read-only purposes. Such directories are used, for example, for storing user data.



## Examples 
* Realization of the dynamic function via external programs that are called via interfaces. Examples include CGI (Common Gateway Interface) and SSI (Server Side Includes). When a web offer is called, programs are called directly on the web server. The results of the program call are embedded in the result that is returned to the user's browser.
* Realization of the dynamic function in the form of functions or modules integrated in the web server. An example of this is PHP as a module in Apache. The main difference to the first point is that no external programs are called. The dynamic function is embedded directly into the web pages to be displayed, for example in the form of script code. Before the web page is delivered to the browser, the script code is interpreted and the result is included in the response of the server.
* Realize the dynamic function on a standalone web application server like JBoss, Weblogic or WebSphere. In this architectural form, requests are initially received and processed by the web server. Those parts of the request that require the calling of dynamic functions are forwarded to a web application server. This performs the required functions and the possible communication with background systems and returns the result to the web server. The web server then embeds the result of the web application server in the response sent to the browser of the client.




