#M 4.72 Database Encryption
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Developer

Depending on the type of information stored in a database and the resulting requirements for its confidentiality and integrity, it may become necessary to encrypt that data. A distinction can be made here between online and offline encryption:

* With online encryption, the data is encrypted and decrypted during operation without the affected users being aware of it. For this purpose, tools can be used that either encrypt the entire hard disk at operating system level or encrypt only the application data of the database.
* In the case of an offline encryption, the data is encrypted only after it has been processed and decoded again before it is further processed. This is generally done with tools that are not integrated with the database system, and may be useful for backups or data transfers. It should be noted that there is sufficient space on the hard disk, since encryption and decryption can only be performed successfully if there is enough space on the hard disk for the original and the encrypted hard disk The encrypted version of the database is available.


In addition, it is possible to save data in plain text in the database, but to realize an encrypted data transfer when accessing via a network. This can z. B. through the Secure Network Services of the Oracle SQL * Net family of products.

Which data is to be encrypted with which method is best established when selecting the standard database software (see M 2.124 Appropriate selection of a database software). The requirements for encrypting data assets should be compared with the corresponding features of the database software. As a minimum requirement, it should in any case ensure that the passwords of the user identifiers of the database are encrypted.

If the requirements can not be met by any of the standard database software available on the market, one should examine the use of ancillary products to close the corresponding vulnerability. If no additional products are available, a concept for the implementation of an encryption strategy has to be drawn up, which is implemented in the company or in the authorities.



