#M 4.296 Use of a suitable WLAN management solution
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to ensure optimal configuration from the security point of view for all WLAN components, these should be administered with care. Since the administration of large WLANs can be complex and complex, the use of WLAN system management tools makes sense. These should also be able to be integrated into existing IT and network management tools as much as possible.

In general, the implementation of a management solution is recommended, which in addition to a monitoring of the WLAN can also provide online documentation. Depending on the scope of services, it should offer the following options:

* Documentation of the firmware status of the access points
* Documentation of the firmware levels and drivers of the WLAN adapters of the WLAN clients
* Documentation of security configurations
* Documentation of site-specific configurations
* History management of configuration changes


To give administrators an overview of all stationary and mobile systems and applications, and as easily as possible, a system management solution should be able to automatically inventory mobile terminals and their applications. Each terminal should be included in the configuration and control processes by the management software as soon as it is logged on to the network. The use of these functions depends on the specifications in the operating manual.

The management system should also have alarm and error handling. The following tasks should be performed by the administrators:

* Evaluation and evaluation of alarms, z. For example, a poll of failed authentication attempts at an access point
* Evaluation of statistics for troubleshooting
* Triggering of measures in case of a suspected security incident
* Adaptation of thresholds for alarm triggering to a changed WLAN usage


A suitable network management protocol should be selected, for example SNMPv3 (see also M 2.144 Using SNMP as Network Management Protocol).

The recorded log data should be evaluated regularly, at least once a month. The scope of logging must be coordinated with the Staff Committee and the Data Protection Officer. The WLAN management software or the general network management solution should offer filter options to better evaluate the log data.



