#M 4.209 Secure basic configuration of z / OS systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The z / OS operating system manages and uses various authorization mechanisms. Incorrect use or misuse of these mechanisms may affect the integrity of the entire system. They must therefore be taken into account in the basic configuration. These are essentially the following features:

* APF authorized files (Authorized Program Facility),
* SVCs (SuperVisor Calls),
* Resource protection,
* Parmlib definitions
* System procedures (Started Tasks) and
* JES2 definitions.


Recommendations for the RACF (Resource Access Control Facility) security system are described in M 4.211 Using the z / OS RACF Security System. In addition, M 4.220 Securing Unix System Services on z / OS systems is to be considered for the basic configuration.

To protect the integrity of the z / OS operating system, the following recommendations should be considered:



## Examples 
* All APF files must be protected by fully qualified generic RACF profiles (as described in S 4.211 Using the z / OS RACF Security System); H. despite the use of generic profiles, the complete file name should be used as the profile name.
* All APF files are defined in the Parmlib member PROGnn with volume information (or SMS). There must be no entries for which there is no file, otherwise there is a risk that another file will be added.
* Access to the APF files may only be carried out by employees whose task it is to maintain the system. The number of these employees should be kept to a minimum. A representative regulation must be provided for.
* APF files are regularly checked for changes in order to detect abuse and abuse attempts as early as possible. Changes to these files under production conditions should only be made via logged-in maintenance windows.
* It is important to consider whether using a real-time monitor can help detect abuse more quickly and thus help increase security (see M .2.291 Security Reporting and Auditing on z / OS). In any case, at least manual controls should be performed on accessing APF files, for example by evaluating SMF (System Management Facility) patents.
* All APF files should be created without any extents.
* It should be taken into account that all files defined in the LINKLIST are considered as APF files by the system when using the parameter LNKAUTH = LNKLST in the member IEASYSxx by default. For these files too, therefore, the security mechanisms described above must be activated.




