#M 4.288 Secure administration of VoIP terminals
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Like the VoIP middleware, the VoIP terminals must meet numerous security requirements. One difference between the security measures of the middleware is how to securely configure them.



## Examples 
* Are the authenticity and integrity of firmware, updates and patches checked on the devices before importing?
* Are unneeded functions of the devices deactivated via configuration settings?
* When using the local configuration: Is the access to the local configuration protected by recognized access features?
* When using the web-based configuration: Is the access to the web-based configuration secured via secure paths and access features?
* When using the automatic configuration: Is a two-sided authentication of the communication partners carried out before the configuration?
* When using the logon function: Do users block their device in case of absence and are emergency call services available without logging in?
* Are the safety functionalities of the devices tested before being used in production?
* Use of softphones: Does the security level of the IT system on which the softphone operates comply with the security requirements of the organization?
* In the case of high or very high protection requirements: Is the use of softphones dispensed with?
* Are the security mechanisms used and the parameters used documented?




