#M 4.25 Use of logging in the Unix system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The protocol options of the individual Unix system are to be used and, if necessary, supplemented by programs or shell scripts.

The following measures should be taken:

* The log files must be evaluated regularly. The evaluation should not always be done at the same time to prevent an attacker from exploiting this fact. If z. For example, if the administrator checks system activity every day at 5:00 pm, an attacker may go unnoticed at 6:00 pm.


* Depending on the nature of the logged events, it may be necessary to intervene as soon as possible. In order for the administrator to be automatically informed about such events (eg log file too high, important server processes aborted, multiple attempts to log root during unusual times of day, etc.), semi-automatic log file parsers should be used for alerting (for example, swatch, logsurfer, or checksyslog).
* If necessary, the log files should be backed up before they become too large or deleted by the system. It must be checked which statutory or contractual retention periods must be observed.
* Information from files such as wtmp, utmp, wtmpx, utmpx, etc. should be viewed with skepticism, as these files are easy to manipulate.
* The file attributes of the log files should be set so that unauthorized persons can not make any changes or evaluations of the logs.
* The following log files should at least be created and controlled: logins (also unsuccessful attempts), call of su, error log file / logging of important events (errorlog), administration functions (in particular instructions executed by root). For more details, see M 4.106 Enabling System Logging. The last command displays login and logout information such as the time and terminal for each user. The administrator should use this command to check regularly if users log in in an unusual way. Eg over modem lines or over FTP.


If logging data is required on many systems, it is recommended to use a dedicated loghost that is especially secure. The forwarding of the syslog messages to this loghost must be activated in the syslog configuration file (see M 4.106 Activating the system logging.

The resulting log data may only be used to control the proper use of the IT systems, not for other purposes, in particular not for the generation of user profiles (see also M 2.110 Data protection aspects of logging). ,



