#M 4.242 Set up a reference installation for clients
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

It is recommended to create a reference installation for clients, in which the basic configuration and all configuration changes, updates and patches can be pre-tested by the users before importing them to the clients. This affects the system's basic settings, security patches and updates, as well as normal updates issued by the manufacturer.

In addition, if necessary, such a reference installation can also be used to simplify the installation of new clients by appropriately overwriting (cloning) a correspondingly preconfigured installation in a suitable manner on the computer to be installed. Ideally, only a few settings need to be adjusted afterwards. A reference installation used for cloning clients must be configured and tested with special care.

The reference installation must be such that the essential parameters of the hardware and software platform for all systems derived from this reference installation are the same. This does not necessarily mean that an identical hardware and software configuration must exist on all clients. However, the configuration of different clients must be sufficiently similar to maintain the reference character of the installation.

When testing application programs and settings that affect the users on the clients, it is particularly important that the administrators do this not with administrator privileges, but under a user ID that has the same permissions and for the user the same settings were selected for the user environment as the users who are to work with the system.

Optionally, it may be advantageous to use different test systems for different types of tests, such as one or more systems for testing device drivers or near-system programs and operating system patches, and another for application program tests. In such a case, however, it is important to be aware that in this way certain types of interactions between operating system environment and application programs can not be covered. In the case of special client security requirements, it may therefore be necessary to use only identically equipped and configured systems for certain deployment scenarios.

For several typical and more frequently recurring test cases, checklists should be created that can be executed during testing and that, in addition to the pure documentation of the test, often also contribute to increasing the efficiency and avoiding errors k can.

All tests should be documented in such a way that they can be reconstructed at a later date. This is particularly important when testing security updates and new device drivers where improper configuration or failure of the installation can cause the affected clients to lose access to the network, or even fail to boot at all. Especially in such cases, a meaningful documentation can significantly reduce the time required for troubleshooting.



