#M 4.492 Secure configuration and use of an embedded web server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Developer, Administrator

Some embedded systems have an embedded web server that can be used to retrieve and control information. This is usually a so-called embedded web server with limited functionality, which is optimized for the most scarce resources. There are many embedded web servers on the market, they are small in size, they are only moderately burdensome for the CPU and are largely platform-independent. The main task is to transfer web documents to the client via HTTP (S). Some also master the dynamic creation of documents, such as server-side scripting.

For an embedded web server, only the required components and features should be installed. The web server should run under an account with as few rights as possible. If higher privileges are required to start, then you should switch to a non-privileged account. All messages relevant for security and error handling should be logged, eg. B.structured for successful and unsuccessful accesses, internal errors, erroneous or incomplete HTTP requests, and other relevant system messages. This logging should be described in the security documentation (for more information, see M 2.497 Creating a security concept for logging). System settings should be as restrictive as possible. For example, the number of concurrent connections should be limited to the amount needed for the purpose, and the size of the internal cache should be limited. If used, access to CGI files with a CGI wrapper should be controlled so that only explicitly released programs can be executed. As far as possible, the web server should only communicate via a secure SSL connection and access should only be possible after strong authentication.



