#M 4.48 Password protection under Windows systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Access to a Windows system starting with the Windows NT version must be password protected for each user and automatic login should not be enabled. User accounts without a password may not exist because they represent a vulnerability in the system. This also applies to disabled accounts. Guest accounts are to be deactivated. It is important for users to know the password protection feature, as user collaboration contributes to the security of the entire system. The basis for the further recommendations in this measure is M 2.11 Control of password usage.

Setting up a new user and defining a password is done under Windows NT using the User Manager utility via the New User command. For Windows versions 2000 and above, the stand-alone systems require the use of the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) Local Users and Groups snap-in. For IT systems in Active Directory domains, new users are created through the MMC Snap-in Active Directory Users and Computers. In any case, an initial password must be entered in the Password and Password Confirmation fields. The case is to be considered. A meaningful individual start password should be assigned, which corresponds to the password rules of the institution and is communicated to the user. This is also to be considered when resetting the password by the administrator. The always same choice of the initial password or the use of the user name as a password opens a security gap, and must be avoided.

The option User must change password at the next login should be set for all new accounts, so that the initial password is not retained. In contrast, the option User can not change password should only be used in exception cases, such as for predefined accounts in training mode. The Password never expires option should only be used for user accounts that are assigned a service using the Services Control Panel option (for example, the MS Exchange service account). This option overrides the Maximum password age setting in the Accounts Policies and prevents the password from expiring.

With Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2, two special accounts were introduced, the managed service account and the virtual account. In contrast to the previously used accounts for managing services such as local service, network service or local system, both accounts can be managed centrally because they are either stored in the managed service accounts organizational unit within the Active Directory (Managed Service Accounts) or how the virtual account is managed as a managed local account through the computer identity in a domain environment. Therefore, for system services, password changes do not have to be configured by administrators because the change is automatic. Previously, managed service accounts could not be shared among multiple computers and therefore could not be used in server clusters where one service replicated to multiple cluster nodes. With Windows 8 and Windows Server 2012, the limitation that a managed service account can only be used on one server at a time was removed by the introduction of group-managed service accounts. For more information about virtual accounts, see M 4.284 Handling Services as of Windows Server 2003.



## Examples 
* The functional mode of the domain must be Windows Server 2008 or higher.
* PSOs can not be applied directly to organizational units (OUs). They apply only to user objects, global security groups, and inetOrgPerson objects.
* Only one PSO can be used per user.
* PSO can only be applied to users or groups within the same domain.




