#M 4.152 Safe operation of Internet PCs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to ensure the safe operation of an Internet PC, measures for the maintenance and care of the system must be implemented. Otherwise, there is a risk that, for example, changes to the configuration may lead to security gaps or exploited software vulnerabilities for attacks from inside or outside. When operating an Internet PC, therefore, the following tasks should be performed:

* Installing patches and updates to address security-related vulnerabilities Frequently, errors in software products are known that could compromise the security of the IT systems where these products are installed. These software vulnerabilities must be resolved as soon as possible so that they can not be exploited by internal or external attackers. The manufacturers of operating system or software components generally publish so-called patches or updates that must be installed on the respective IT system in order to remedy the error (s). The administration of the Internet PC should therefore regularly inform themselves about known software vulnerabilities and install published patches or updates (see also M 2.35 Obtaining information about security vulnerabilities of the system). It is important that patches and updates - like any other software - can only be obtained from trustworthy sources, as far as possible directly from the manufacturer or vendor. Before installation, they should also be checked using a computer virus protection program.
* Regular monitoring and monitoring of the Internet PCInstallation and configuration of an Internet PC is usually not static, but changes during operation. Users can, for example, create bookmarks on visited Internet pages, save e-mails or downloads and link file types with display programs. In many cases, many programs independently make significant changes to the configuration. Finally, attacks or attempted attacks can also be affected by changes to the installation or configuration of the Internet PC. The Administration must therefore check regularly whether the installation and the configuration of the Internet PC are compatible with the Internet Specifications or setpoints. For this purpose z. For example, to check if the hardware configuration of the Internet PC has been changed, if software components have been removed or additionally installed, if settings of the BIOS, operating system or programs have been changed without permission, and if this is not the case indicates that locally stored data does not comply with the guidelines, e.g. Due to the path or file names. Furthermore, the available logging mechanisms, eg. For example, Event Viewer on Windows NT, syslog on Linux, History in Internet Explorer, can be evaluated. These logs may contain evidence of attacks, attempted attacks, and abusive use of the Internet PC, such as the Internet. B. Access to unauthorized websites. However, it should be kept in mind that some of these protocols can be easily manipulated. Certainly, security policy breaches are obviously not made in the public domain. To further complicate abuse, the Internet PC can therefore also be placed in a place with public traffic, for example, in a library. In the control or monitoring of the Internet PC, the provisions on data protection and employee participation must get noticed. Therefore, all measures should be coordinated with the staff council and the data protection officer in good time.
* Regular reinstallation of the system Another way to counter unwanted changes to the installation or configuration of the Internet PC is to periodically reinstall the system. Such new installations also prevent system crashes caused by damaged or unstable installations. The intervals between new installations must be determined individually on the basis of the requirements for the integrity of the Internet PC. If such new installations are to be carried out at short intervals, it is advisable to obtain an image of the System, which can then be installed as a whole. Otherwise, u. This can be a considerable amount of work, since the system must be reconstructed on the basis of the individual software components and the configuration parameters each time. The procedure for the new installation must in any case be consistent with the data protection concept for the Internet PC (see M 6.79 Data backup for the Use of Internet PCs). Otherwise, there is a risk that the reinstallation will lose data that can not be reconstructed.




