#M 4.449 Introduction of a zone concept
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Often, institutions usually build large but simple networks that do not require additional security zones. All IT systems are assigned to a single network, at the interface to the Internet, a central security gateway solution (see block B 3.301 security gateway (firewall)) for information security is responsible. However, such a simple security architecture frequently offers too little security against attackers or malware, since the entire network with all components and data is open after the security gateway has been over- come.

In the face of this danger, institutions should take measures to secure their network and thus the connected IT systems such as servers, clients, network (IP and FC) and storage components. One possible solution is the formation of zones. For this purpose, the network is subdivided into separate areas, each of which is protected by its own security gateway or a packet filter, for example.

A zone concept distinguishes between different security zones with different security features. The introduction of such a zone concept is based on the determination of the different protection requirements of data held in reserve and initially requires careful planning.

In addition to a protection needs analysis, all existing communication relationships in the network must be determined and compared with the actual necessary connections. This procedure serves to reduce network traffic to a reasonable and necessary degree and to minimize the dependencies between IT systems. The determined data form the basis for the division into security zones.

Security zones usually differ by:

* the owner of the processes and data,
* the classification and protection requirements of the information objects to be processed,
* the user groups and components that can access these information objects,
* the threats and the implemented security measures.


All deployed IT systems of an institution are assigned to exactly one zone of the zone concept. A security zone for this system represents an environment with defined security features with regard to the protection of the communication relationships with other zones. In conjunction with the implementation of a rights and roles concept that allows or blocks access to IT systems in adjacent zones data with a higher protection requirement can be protected to the outside.

The principle of prohibiting cross-zonal access also increases the level of security by preventing attackers from using a compromised system with less strong security measures as a springboard for the entire network , If an IT system is compromised, then only the IT systems from the same zone can be attacked. IT systems of other zones outside the affected zone are protected by the measures to separate the zones.

The zone concept formulates the security level of deployment environments, which must be realized through a concrete network, application and security architecture. Depending on the protection requirements of the IT systems, different versions are possible, which ensure a lower, medium or higher level of protection.



