#M 4.387 Secure allocation of access rights to OpenLDAP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The correct assignment and correct implementation of access rights are elementary prerequisites for ensuring information security. Whenever a user directs an operation against an object in the directory service, it must be decided whether it is permissible to perform this operation. The authorization concept must be defined in the context of the M 2.405 creation of a security policy for the use of directory services. The regulations made there must be implemented in OpenLDAPtechnical. General information on this topic can also be found in the M 4.309 Setting up access permissions to directory services. The LDAP standard only determines that an access control should take place and, as part of the standard, defines server responses in the event that operations are rejected because of insufficient privileges. How an access control is to be implemented concretely, however, is not specified in the LDAP standard and depends to a great extent on the directory service used. The allocation of access rights in OpenLDAP is therefore comprehensively covered in this measure.



## Examples 
* * for all users of the directory service, including unauthenticated users
* anonymous for unauthenticated users
* users for authenticated users (for the distinction between authenticated and unauthenticated users, see M 4.388 Secure Authentication vs. OpenLDAP)
* self for users who have bundled with the identity of the target object
* Distinguished Names (DNs) for fully qualified users or regular expressions
* Attribute filter to grant access to an object where the user is entered in an attribute, for example, as a supervisor of a person
* Group attributes to control access rights through static or dynamic group memberships
* IP entries for all users whose client is connected from a given IP address space or to a given domain




