#M 4.381 Encryption of Exchange System Databases
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Microsoft Exchange Information Storages are databases that centrally manage user mailboxes and other relevant data on the server side. Microsoft Outlook uses Personal Store (PST) container files, which are similarly structured in the database and store a user-specific image of the information store on the client's computer. The location of a PST file on the server or locally at the client has a significant impact on the encryption capabilities.

For Exchange Server information store files, file-level encryption, such as Encrypted File System (EFS), is not recommended; the effort of such online encryption is not suitable for the execution of a Microsoft Exchange server.

The following aspects should be considered for local PST files in Microsoft Outlook:

* The PST file is a storage of user data: folders, e-mails, their attachments, contact details, and calendars. For PST files own encryption functions are available.
* Encryption level can be set in three levels: no encryption-compressible encryption: An Outlook-specific procedure is used. High Encryption: An Outlook-specific procedure is used.
* None of the options provide adequate protection for sensitive data. It is recommended that you use EFS (Encrypting File System), Windows BitLocker Drive Encryption, or similar mechanisms to secure the data in a .pst file.
* Files encrypted with the Encryption High Encryption level can only be kept in a restricted compressed state.
* The data between the server and the client is encrypted during file encryption. They therefore have to be protected against being eavesdropped (see also M 5.125 Securing Communication to and from SAP Systems).


Depending on the type of information stored in a database and the resulting requirements for its confidentiality and integrity, it may become necessary to encrypt that data. The boundary conditions here should be regulated, z. For example, in the security policy for Microsoft Exchange systems (see M .2.248 Setting a security policy for Exchange / Outlook 2000). Users must be aware of the functionality and protections of encrypting .pst files.

The requirements of this measure for the 2010 version can be implemented as follows:

* Encryption of the Exchange databases must be done using Windows BitLocker Drive Encryption. Both the databases and the transaction logs can be taken into account without significant performance losses. BitLocker encryption is not approved for use with Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 as of Windows Server 2008. For more information, see the Microsoft Support Policy for Exchange 2007 Database Encryption document: Exchange 2007 Help in Microsoft Technet.
* It is recommended that you use EFS (Encrypting File System) or Windows BitLocker Drive Encryption to back up the local data in a .pst file or .ost file.




