#M 4.277 Securing SMB, LDAP and RPC communication on Windows servers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The basic protocols for network communication between Windows servers and clients are SMB, RPC, and LDAP. These protocols are tightly integrated with the security architecture of Windows and benefit from the built-in techniques to ensure secure communication.

Basically, the use of the plain text login, called Windows Basic Authentication, must be prevented. The same applies to some other weak encryption procedures, which can easily be compromised by commonly available audit tools. The login must therefore be sufficiently encrypted, both when communicating within a Windows environment and between Windows and other IT systems such as Samba or Mac OS X.

When planning, be aware that some required security settings for SMB, RPC, and LDAP are not set after a default installation. Notes on the settings can be found under the IT Baseline Protection Tools (see RPC, SMB and LDAP in Windows Server 2003 in Windows Server 2003 Tools). The security settings should be checked and adjusted if necessary. These settings also apply to Windows Server 2008. Some of the advanced settings are already set there by default, depending on the role (AD or member server) (especially in the Encryption and LM hashes), the Gros  teil must be adjusted.

In addition to the settings mentioned there, at least the default security settings of Service Pack 1 should be active for Windows Server 2003 (see Windows Security and Services Configuration.xls from the Microsoft Security Guide Threats and Countermeasures: Security Settings in Windows Server 2003 and Windows XP Version 2.0 from 27.  December2005).



## Examples 
* Is the use of the standard authentication as well as other weak encryption methods omitted, and instead an application with sufficiently strong encryption mandatory?
* Are the latest service packs installed on Windows servers and the default security settings configured?
* Are the security settings made under Windows Server checked in advance for their compatibility with all system types involved and the availability tested under heavy load?
* Are the effective security templates documented for each server?




