#M 4.406 Prevention of clickjacking
Responsible for initiation: Responsible for the individual applications, Head of Development

Responsible for implementation: Developer, Administrator

If the web application is the target of a clickjacking attack, then the contents of the web application are embedded in a non-visible frame. When a user visits a web page that includes this frame, clicks on visible content are unknowingly intercepted by the invisible frame. If the user is logged on to the web application, access-protected actions in the web application can be executed in this way without authorization. To avoid this, the web application must ensure that the contents of its own web application are not used in frames.

Therefore, the following countermeasures to prevent clickjacking should be implemented:

* Embedded code (eg JavaScript) in the web pages should check on the client and ensure that the contents of the web application are displayed at the top level of the browser window. This is to prevent any other levels from being stored above the original content of the website. If this is not possible, then the display of the web application should be stopped (see script for avoiding clickjacking in tools for the Web application module).
* When the Web application is delivered to the web pages, the XT-FRAME-OPTIONS directive should also be set in the HTTP response headers. X-FRAME-OPTIONS DENY prevents contents of the web page from being displayed in a frame. Alternatively, this restriction can be limited to pages that are not from the same domain (X-FRAME-OPTIONS SAMEORIGIN).




