#M 4.456 Authentication for web services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, responsible for the individual applications, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, developer

In order to restrict access to a web service to an authorized group of persons or to implement different authorizations within a web service (see M4455 Authorization for web services), it is necessary to uniquely identify the users who access the service and to authenticate. Conversely, the user of a web service must be able to ensure that he actually communicates with the desired service.

Authentication must take place before any valuable information is transmitted. This means that the user of a web service must ensure that he actually communicates with the desired web service before sending a request with confidential information to the service. Conversely, a web service must verify the identity of the requesting user or web service before returning confidential information to it or granting the user permission to invoke functions (see M 4.455 Web Services Authorization). ,

The authentication of communication partners can be implemented at different levels. One possibility is, for example, authentication at the transport level by means of SSL / TLS. This is often referred to as Transport Layer Authentication. Another possibility is authentication at the message level, for example using the mechanisms from the WS security standards. If you want to authenticate not only individual messages, but rather a more complex message exchange, then it is recommended to implement an appropriate session management (see M 4.394 Session Management for Web Applications and Web Services).



## Examples 
* Is there mutual authentication in the communication between the web service and the web service user before the other party is provided with confidential information or access to functions?
* Are sufficiently strong authentication methods used?
* Are passwords exclusively encrypted?
* When using XML signatures, does the signature actually refer to the data processed at the application level to prevent XML Signature Wrapping attacks?
* Are cryptographic procedures needed for the authentication in the crypto-concept of the institution taken into account?
* Are protective measures against the reinstatement and forwarding of identifiers implemented?




