#M 4.211 Use of the z / OS security system RACF
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The secure configuration of a z / OS system is done by definitions of operating system components and centrally via the RACF (Resource Access Control Facility). In this action recommendations for the use of RACF are explained. Information for backing up the z / OS definitions can be found in the M 4.209 Secure Basic Configuration of z / OS Systems.

RACF manages users' identities and accessibility to different resources in the form of profiles. These are available as dataset profiles, general resource profiles, group profiles and their connections as well as user profiles.

For the administration of RACF the following rules have to be considered:



## Examples 
* Files must generally be protected via generic file profiles in the RACF. Discrete file profiles are to be avoided.
* No file profile should be created with Universal Access (UACC) Larger NONE. It should be prevented by organizational or technical mechanisms that users for their own file profiles can change the UACC value.
* General resource profiles should only be created with UACC greater NONE if absolutely necessary. This should be documented comprehensibly.
* In a production system, file profiles and general resource profiles are not allowed to run in warning mode, as otherwise no real protection of the resources to which these profiles are assigned is ensured. When using the warning mode on a test system, it must be ensured that the performance of the system is not negatively influenced (by generating MVS messages and SMF records).
* To limit the effort of RACF maintenance, standards are required for the creation and use of file names and RACF general resources (see M .2.285 Defining standards for z / OS system definitions).
* Highly authorized files, such as B. APF, SVC files, Parmlibs and Proclibs should only be protected by fully qualified generic file profiles. Further information on the protection of these files can be found in M 4.209 Secure Basic Configuration of z / OS Systems.
* The RACF database, the backup RACF database and their backup copies should be protected with UACC (NONE). Access rights to these files (even read-only) should be kept to a minimum in order to prevent as far as possible brute-force attacks on the passwords stored in the database.




