#M 5.58 Selection and installation of database interface drivers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Database interface driver, such as Open Database Connectivity (ODBC), Integrated Database Application Programming Interface (IDAPI), or Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) drivers install an additional layer of software between database applications and the corresponding database protocol. By installing the appropriate driver for the database, a uniform interface is created between the application and the database, via which the communication (issuing of database requests, reading of data) to the database is carried out. The associated SQL-compliant SQL interface enables applications to be created without having to take into account the specifics of different database products. When changing the database software, therefore, the application ideally does not need to be adapted, but it is sufficient to replace the driver. Originally developed for products of Microsoft, Sun, etc., database interface drivers have become established as standard and are available for all common database products.

When selecting a driver, different criteria must be taken into account. The most important are listed below:

* Which drivers exist for the corresponding database version?
* Which drivers exist for the operating system version of the computer running the application program?
* Should drivers of the database manufacturer (mostly free) or drivers of third party companies be selected?
* Which SQL language scope is represented by the interface?
* What other requirements does the computer architecture and the software used bring with it?


On the basis of these criteria, and if necessary additional requirements, which depend on the application scenario, a suitable driver should be selected. In retrospect, the driver selection should be checked regularly. In addition to regularly scheduled system checks, this can be due, among other things, to software upgrades of the database or the operating system or new driver versions.

When installing database interface drivers, care should be taken to ensure that no security gaps arise with regard to access control to the database system due to errors or delays.

To connect an application to a database, the database interface driver must be used to set up a so-called data source, which then supports communication between the application and the database. This installation should only be performed by an administrator.

Some applications install data sources for sample databases or unused database interface drivers. To prevent unwanted, possibly uncontrolled access via these data sources or drivers, all unnecessary data sources and drivers should be removed.



## Examples 
* Are criteria for selecting database interface drivers set and considered?
* Is the selected selection of database interface drivers regularly checked?
* Have all unnecessary data sources for sample databases and database interface drivers been removed or disabled?




