#M 5.4 Documentation and labeling of the wiring
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, building services

Maintenance, troubleshooting, repair, and successful cabling verification requires good documentation and clear identification of all components involved. The quality of this revision documentation depends on the completeness, the timeliness and the readability of the documents. In any case, a person responsible for the documentation of the wiring must be named.

Since it is not possible to accommodate all the information in a plan as the size of a network increases, it makes sense to share the information. Actual location information should always be included in standard plans. Other information may be presented in tabular form or schematics. It is important that there is a clear assignment of all information among each other. The documentation should therefore consist of descriptive documents, lists and plans.

The descriptive documents, such as eg. A documentation guideline contains the information on the procedures for documentation, designation and labeling regulations. This should, for example, describe in a general way which lists and plans should be created and how these should be audit-proof.

List and inventory plans shall include all matters relating to the network. The lists should include the following information:

* Delivery and component information,
* exact cable types (with fiber optic cables also fiber quality),
* usage-oriented cable marking,
* Locations of centers and distributors with precise names and access rules with contact persons to the buildings and premises,
* Plots of all shunting and distribution,
* Use of all lines, naming the network participants connected to them,
* technical data of connection points,
* Danger points,
* existing and to be tested protective measures.


The inventory plans typically consist of:

* Site surveys and exhausted location plans with the exact routing of the routes and the primary cabling,
* Geb udeschnitten as schematics and bem  ten floor plan plans with the exact location and guidance of Verteilerr ume, routes and cables as well as the IT connections per room in z. B. Brühungskan len and / or Bodenausl ssen,
* Technical room layouts with room layout, double floor grid and cabinet positioning, power distribution and potential equalization rail as well as existing air conditioning,
* Cabinet viewplans for the correct description of the installed passive and active components including the socket strips,
* physical and logical connection plans of the network.


It must be possible to use this documentation to quickly and easily get an accurate picture of the cabling.

In order to ensure the up-to-dateness of the documentation, it must be ensured that all work on the network is made known in good time and in full to the person who manages the documentation. It is z. B. conceivable to make the issue of material, the assignment of third-party orders or the release of secured areas dependent on the recording of this function.

Since this documentation contains sensitive information, it must be stored securely and the access to be regulated. Furthermore, the cables themselves must be marked in order to be able to assign the information from the inventory plans. The labeling of the cables must be made at both ends. If required, the lettering can also be repeatedly affixed to the cable in order to clearly identify it even when tracking in the route. Identification fields or labeling strips are to be used which are labeled manually or mechanically permanently readable. A lettering with a foil pen is often insufficient.

The cables and lines should always be labeled or marked in such a way that they can only refer to the documentation. A marking that allows a direct conclusion to the meaning of the cable or the cable is to be avoided, unless this is required by other regulations.

It makes sense to start with the documentation already in the planning of cabling measures in such a tool and to transfer this from the planning status to the productive status after the realization. In this way it is easier to inform the users of the documentation about upcoming changes and to keep the documentation up-to-date.



