#M 5.143 Ongoing updating and revision of network documentation
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

Networks are subject to an ongoing change from post-cabling, conversion and expansion measures to updates and upgrades of active network components. Accordingly, the documentation of IT cabling must be considered and treated as an integral part of any change in the network. Only after completion of the documentation is the change measure also considered completely completed.

In addition to general operational security and traceability, consistent documentation of IT cabling also serves the following purposes:

* short switching times for network extensions,
* simple fault isolation and search,
* short recovery times in case of failure,
* Economics of maintenance contracts.


It is important that all documentation areas affected by the change can be easily recorded and adapted. A documentation policy simplifies the handling of the documentation. It should describe the procedures, the documentation areas, and the specifications, including naming and numbering schemes.

In addition, it should be checked whether the use of document management for network documentation is expedient. Document management can, among other things, facilitate the following documentation aspects:

* Documentation of changes already during the planning phase,
* Informing all persons involved   about the plans,
* Integration of approval processes,
* Archiving of old documentation.


Various software tools can also support the documentation of the cables and the network components including their interconnection. Some of these tools allow for coupling and integration with network management systems. Active monitoring of patches in the passive infrastructure is also supported.



