#M 5.120 Handling ICMP on the security gateway
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP, specified in RFC 792) has as a protocol of the transport layer the task to transport error and diagnostic information for IP. It is initiated and processed internally by IP, TCP or UDP. ICMP knows a number of different so-called message types for different purposes. In addition to many useful features, there are some message types in ICMP that allow attackers to gain critical information over a network, or that can be used directly for attacks (see G5.50 Misuse of the ICMP Protocol) of the ICMP protocol).

Unfortunately, the radical approach to blocking ICMP on the security gateway is also not a satisfactory solution, as certain features are no longer available. While commands such as ping or traceroute can typically be dropped on normal workstations and servers, global blocking of ICMP on the security gateway can lead to impairments that are difficult to diagnose.

Therefore, it should be considered to perform selective ICMP filtering on the security gateway as well as, if applicable, on a local packet filter on the individual IT systems, provided that the corresponding options are available. The purpose of the computer (server or workstation), the protection requirements and, for individual computers, the measures taken at the security gateway should be taken into consideration. For example, a larger number of message types can be allowed for the internal network than for the external network.

The ICMP message Echo Request (message type 8) is sent, for example, by programs such as the command-line tool ping and serves to find out whether a computer can be reached in principle. The computer responds with an echo reply (message type 0). If ICMP echo requests from the external network are transmitted to the internal network, this can be exploited by an attacker to map the internal network.

The ICMP message Destination Unreachable (message type 3) is generated, for example, when a computer or a network is unreachable, and can be abused to interrupt all connections between the participating computers. Nevertheless, the message Destination Unreachable is particularly important for the functioning of the protocols of the higher levels. For example, the subtype Fragmentation Needed but the Do not Fragment Bit was Set (Message Type 3, Code 4) is important for the function of determining the maximum possible packet size for a particular connection (Path MTU Discovery).

The ICMP message Redirect (message type 5) is sent out when a gateway detects that the packet can be sent directly to another gateway, ie until now a detour was used. The shorter path is then entered in the sender's routing table. This can be misused by attackers to configure routes via their own attack computers. Therefore, ICMP redirect messages should be blocked on the security gateway.

For the other messages, consider whether information that may be delivered to the outside may be misused for an attack.



## Examples 
* Is restrictive use of approved ICMP message types on the security gateway restricted?
* Are ICMP redirected messages blocked on the security gateway?
* Is the active sending of ICMP messages prevented by the components of the security gateway?
* Is it documented which ICMP messages are allowed in which directions?




