#M 5.95 Secure e-commerce when using internet PCs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Today, the Internet is not only used for information gathering and communication, but also intensively as a platform for the execution of business or administrative processes. Examples include online orders, account or securities transactions and e-government applications.

E-commerce and e-government applications generally have higher security requirements than just gathering information through the World Wide Web. In particular, it must be ensured that online transactions and orders are not manipulated during processing on the Internet PC and during transmission over the Internet. If an Internet PC is also used for e-commerce or e-government applications, the following recommendations should be considered.

Before entering into a business relationship with a provider via the Internet, it should be verified that its privacy and data security principles are consistent with its own requirements. The provider should provide information on the web server.

To protect against computer viruses, Trojan horses and other malicious programs, a virus protection program must be installed whose database is regularly updated. Further recommendations can be found in block B 1.6 Protection against malware and measures M 4.3 Use of virus protection programs.

The data inventories and configuration settings required for e-commerce or e-government applications must be regularly backed up (see also M 6.79 Data backup when using Internet PCs). Otherwise, there is a risk that the application can not be restored in a timely manner or that traceable (trans) actions can not be reconstructed in the event of a failure of the Internet PC or in the event of accidental deletion.

If for the application special software components, eg. Online banking programs that are needed should be sourced solely from trusted sources, as far as possible directly from the vendor or vendor. For these software components, it is necessary to check regularly whether security-relevant patches or updates exist. These must be recorded. Software and updates must be checked for malware before installation.

If an Internet PC is used regularly for e-commerce or e-government applications, it should be assigned to a fixed user and used exclusively for these applications. Otherwise, there is the danger that it will later be unclear which user has taken a specific action.

Many applications in e-commerce and e-government use the WWW browser as a client program.

As a protection mechanism for the transmission is usually the TLS / SSL protocol used. In doing so, confidentiality and integrity of the data are protected by means of cryptographic procedures. In the browser, a TLS / SSL connection can be recognized by the fact that the address (URL) starts with https: instead of http :, and in the case of the usual browsers also with a special symbol, eg. a closed lock.

Web-based e-commerce and e-government applications should be used exclusively via TLS / SSL. The provider should provide the entire web application via TLS / SSL. It is important to use a browser that supports strong cryptographic procedures, in particular 128-bit key-space. This is not the case with some older browsers due to export restrictions.

For the authentication of the WWW server, certificates are used in the TLS / SSL protocol. When using e-commerce or eGovernment applications over TLS / SSL, users should sporadically verify that the server certificate is valid and that they are actually connected to the desired server are. For this it is necessary that the users are trained for the operation of the WWW-Browser and hints are made available to them, as they make the check during the concrete installation and configuration.



