#M 5.177 Server-side use of SSL / TLS
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Transport Layer Security (TLS) is a further development of Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and is used to cryptographically secure information during transmission in networks, usually between server services and clients or between server services. Configuration notes on how to use SSL / TLS on clients and general information about how SSL / TLS works can be found in M 5.66 Client-side use of SSL / TLS. Clients can only use encryption over SSL / TLS if it is supported by the server services. SSL / TLS can be used to encrypt information from the application layer (eg HTTP, LDAP, POP3, IMAP and SMTP) encrypted over TCP / IP. In addition, secure VPNs (Virtual Private Networks) can be established using SSL / TLS. With OpenVPN, a software freely available under the GNU GPL (General Public License), VPNs can be encrypted using SSL / TLS encrypted connections. More detailed information about VPNs can be found in B 4.4 VPN.

In general, many server services require little extra effort to configure them to support SSL / TLS encryption, or to use them exclusively for information exchange. Therefore, for all server services, it must be checked whether a reasonable amount of encryption over SSL / TLS is possible and practicable. If this is possible with reasonable effort, the SSL / TLS encryption should be activated. Generally, the internal and external message stream from and to LDAP, email, and web servers should be encrypted using SSL / TLS.

Selection of a trusted certification authority

At the beginning of a new SSL / TLS secure communication setup, a so-called handshake takes place between client and server. Here, the client and server communicate through the cryptographic algorithms used for key exchange, encryption and integrity assurance. In addition, client and server agree on the SSL version being used. In addition, the server sends its X.509 certificate to the client. Optionally, the server can also be configured to prompt the client to submit its X.509 certificate to the server.

The identity of the communication partners is checked via these certificates. X.509 certificates contain the public keys and a confirmation of another instance, the certification authority or trust center or certificate authority (CA), about the correct assignment of the public key to its owner. The value of a certificate depends on which fields of the X.509 certificate are verified by the certification authority before the certificate is issued, and how trustworthy the certification authority itself is. Therefore, the selection of a trusted certification authority plays an important role.

Due to the large number of certification bodies in the market, an institution should carefully select the certification authority. It is advisable to specify in advance the essential selection criteria for later operation. These may include, for example:

* whether the root certificate is already in CA lists of clients, such as the browser,
* where the seat and legal status of the certification body are located, and also where the technical office is located,
* what is the business orientation of the certification authority (is CA operation a central business field?), which includes the CA services offered (eg OSCP, CRL),
* which security level the certification body can demonstrate
* how good the scope and quality of the technical support,
* how high the certificate costs are.


In principle, however, the cost of a certificate should by no means be the only decisive criterion. If the offered server service is used by a limited number of users, eg. B. only within a LAN, a certificate can be created and signed even without the participation of a certification authority itself and recorded on all clients on which the server service is to be used,

Extended Validation Certificates

To make attacks with fake websites more difficult and counteract the problem that various certification authorities do not always reliably verify SSL / TLS applications, Extended Validation Certificates have been introduced for handling certificates with higher security requirements leads. These are to prevent that when a certificate is issued, a CA only checks the domain name. In addition, the CA should also clearly understand by whom the domain in question was registered. Unlike the standard X.509 SSL / TLS certificates, these extended certificates (Extended Validation SSL Certificates, EV-SSL) more extensively verify the identity of the claimant. The participating certification authorities and browser manufacturers undertake to comply with the Guidelines for the Issuance and Management of Extended Validation Certificates of the CA / Browser Forum. Thereafter, the following criteria must be met by the applicant, among others:

* Proof of identity and address of the applicant,
* Proof that the applicant is the sole owner of the domain,
* Confirmation that the Applicant   is at all entitled to make the application and
* Main contact person.


In addition, the applicant or the applicant may not be on a list of prohibited organizations or persons. In addition, the country in which the applicant's registered office or legal status is located may not be subject to any trade embargo or any other sanction imposed by the country whose legislation is subject to the certification body.

For users, EV-SSL certificates can be recognized by the fact that certain areas in the supported browsers, such as the URL field, or the thumbnail symbol used by many browsers, which identifies an encrypted page, have a green background is. However, depending on the configuration of the security gateway (firewall) behind which users access web pages with EV SSL certificates, these markers may not be displayed in the clients' browsers. If, for example, the message flow between the client and the web server is encrypted and re-encrypted by a proxy, only the SSL / TLS certificate of the security gateway is displayed in the browser.

In addition to the higher financial costs that can be incurred for issuing an EV-SSL certificate, the application generally lasts longer, as additional information is checked by the certification body. If possible, it is recommended that this extra effort be accepted. Especially in areas where information with higher protection requirements regarding confidentiality and integrity is transmitted, EV-SSL certificates should be preferred.

Common name entry

Browsers always display a security warning if the common name entered in the certificate of a web page does not match the fully qualified domain name (DNS) that the server can access on the web. Therefore, make sure that the common name matches the URL that is actually used to communicate with the server. If possible, wildcard certificates (eg * .example.de) should be avoided. These are often used to secure multiple subdomains with a single certificate.

Complete certificate chain

Since all intermediate certificates are required for the check of the hierarchical certificate chain by the browser, the SSL certificate of the server alone is not sufficient. Therefore, the server should be configured to send all required certificates to the client when connecting. For this, the certificate chain should be stored accordingly in the web server.

It should also be noted that in addition to certificates that are missing, even expired or revoked certificates will fail the verification of the certificate chain. Only if all certificates are valid and have been transmitted during connection establishment can the certificate chain be successfully checked.

Selection of a SSL / TLS protocol version

There are currently five SSL / TLS protocol versions: SSL v2, SSL v3, TLS v1.0, TLS v1.1, and TLS v1.2. SSL v1 has not been released. To ensure a secure connection between client and server, TLS 1.2 should be used. TLS 1.1 provides sufficient security, but compared to TLS 1.2 it has some weaknesses, such as: For example, in TLS 1.1, cipher suites based on IDEA and DES are no longer present in TLS 1.2. TLS 1.0 can be used intermittently in existing applications if an immediate migration to TLS 1.1 or, preferably, TLS 1.2 is not possible and appropriate measures against Chosen Plaintext attacks (eg BEAST) on the CBC Implementation to be taken. In general, however, a migration to TLS 1.2 should be carried out as soon as possible. SSL v2 and SSL v3 may no longer be used.

Safe cipher suites

SSL / TLS uses cipher suites that determine how secure a HTTPS connection is. Each suite consists of specific modules. If a particular module is considered unsafe or weak, changing the cipher suite will allow you to switch to a more secure module.

Since the use of weak cipher suites can be enforced on the client side, it is necessary to offer servers only those that use authentication and encryption with sufficient strength. In addition, the cipher suites used should support Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS) (see TR-02102-2).

Further notes on cryptographic algorithms and key sequences are contained in the Technical Guideline of the BSI Cryptographic Procedures: Recommendations and Key Chains - Part 2 Use of TLS (TR-02102-2) and M 2.164 Selection of a suitable cryptographic method ,

Session Renegotiation / TLS Compression

Using session renegotiation, both client and server can renegotiate the parameters of an existing HTTPS session. Due to a bug in the specification of the TLS protocol (RFC 5246), it is possible for a man-in-the-middle attacker to misuse session renegotiation to insert arbitrary content into an existing HTTPS session. Meanwhile, the TLS protocol has been extended (RFC 5746) and this design bug has been fixed. In general, it should be considered whether server renegotiation is required. If this is the case, then it should be configured securely, based on RFC 5746. Renegotiation initiated by the client should be denied by the server.

In addition, the TLS compression should be disabled.

Web server-specific aspects

In general, it is recommended to protect the content made available on web servers during the transfer from the server to the client and vice versa using SSL / TLS.

If possible, avoid offering mixed content websites. A mixed content web page is a page that uses encryption, but also includes plain text content (such as JavaScript, CSS, or images). A man-in-the-middle attacker can exploit the transmission of a single unencrypted file to perform an HTTPS session. In addition, because mixed content web pages typically generate browser alerts, it will degrade usability.

HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is another method that protects against known weaknesses of SSL. This makes it difficult for a visitor to be redirected from a secure to an unsecured page due to an attack or server-side configuration issues. For example, if an attacker is in the same WLAN as the victim, he or she could read the session cookies and take over the HTTPS session. To enable HSTS, the HSTS header must be configured on the server.

Protection of the private server key

A particularly important security aspect when using SSL / TLS is the protection of the private server key. Therefore, it is advisable to configure the server so that the private server key must be released when the server is started by password entry. If it is suspected that the private key has been compromised, the underlying certificate must be revoked. Further notes on handling cryptographic keys can be found in M 2.46 Appropriate Key Management.

validation

The impact of configuration changes on the server is not always predictable. Even software updates can sometimes lead to surprising changes. It is therefore recommended that the SSL / TLS configuration be checked for errors before being released for use, and that the status be periodically (periodically) validated.



