#M 5.133 Selection of a VoIP signaling protocol
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

When using VoIP, the control information and the actual voice data are usually transported separately, using different transmission protocols. Control information, such as the status occupied, is transmitted via signaling protocols, for example H.323 or SIP (Session Initiation Protocol). For the transmission of the voice data, however, a media transport protocol, usually RTP (Real-Time Transport Protocol), is responsible. Only very few protocols, such as IAX (InterAsterisk eXchange), do not separate tax and media information.

There are different signaling protocols. Since these protocols are not compatible with each other, the choice for the construction of a VoIP network plays an important role. VoIP components that do not support a common protocol can not communicate without a gateway. The use of a gateway that translates the instructions from one protocol to another is very time-consuming and cumbersome. It is therefore important to ensure that as far as possible only one signaling protocol is used.

The choice of VoIP components used greatly influences the choice of signaling protocol, since many VoIP components only support a specific signaling protocol. In terms of security, the differences between the protocols play only a minor role. It should be documented which signaling protocol was selected.

In the following the common signaling protocols H.323 and SIP are considered. In addition to these protocols, all types of VoIP components that are at least required for a call set-up are also presented.



## Examples 
* Terminals represent the endpoints of H.323 communication to the user. These terminals typically have a speaker and a microphone and allow the user to connect to another party. A direct connection between the terminals is only possible if the IP address is known.
* Gatekeepers are used for administration. Since direct connection between terminals is only possible with known IP addresses, a gatekeeper acts as a central control component in H.323 networks.
* The Multipoint Control Unit (MCU) allows conferences, ie conversations between more than two users. In the optional MCU, all media streams come together from the participants.
* Gateways realize the transitions into other networks and thereby adapt the user data and the signaling information. For example, gateways mediate between IP and circuit switched telephone networks.




