#M 5.116 Integration of an e-mail server into a security gateway
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

When considering the question of integrating an e-mail server into a security gateway, two scenarios are considered: in the first case, it is only about making the service e-mail available for a single trusted network, in the second case E-mail for multiple trusted networks.

In both scenarios, internal e-mail servers are operated in the trusted networks. An e-mail server within the trusted network will manage the alias database, which can translate the user addresses into a consistent format, optionally for a POP or IMAP daemon, or as a gateway to the transition used in another mail system (eg BX400). All internal mails are sent to this server and from there forwarded to the outside via an external mail server.

The use of an internal mail server is recommended for various reasons:

* E-mails between computers within the trusted networks do not leave these networks because they are processed by the respective internal mail servers.
* If the internal mail server is also used as a groupware server at the same time, this could lead to an unnecessarily high burden on the ALG.
* In this way, a groupware server is better protected against external attacks because it is further away from the non-trusted network.


However, it is recommended that the mail or groupware servers in the internal network are additionally protected against unauthorized access from the internal network, at least through packet filter rules. This corresponds to setting up the server in a dedicated DMZ of the inner packet filter. For special security requirements in the internal network, this should absolutely be done.

Unlike the web server, which recommends positioning as far as possible in the security gateway, the recommended e-mail server arrangement is as far as possible inside. The reason for this is that This way, even if the internet connection fails, internal e-mails can still be sent.



## Examples 
* Is the e-mail server at least protected by a packet filter against unauthorized access from the internal network?
* Is the sending of emails to external addresses carried out via a separate mail relay?
* Do the communication links (external as well as internal) to the e-mail server comply with the security requirements of the organization?




