#M 5.171 Secure communication to a central logging server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

With central logging, the information of the monitored IT systems and applications is transmitted via the network to a central logging server in order to collect, evaluate and store them. Since the log data may also contain personal information, it must be protected against unauthorized access (viewing, modifying or deleting).

To prevent the log data from being listened to or manipulated during transmission to the central logging server, they can either be encrypted or transmitted via a separate administration network (out-of-band). This also increases the integrity and confidentiality of log messages.



## Examples 
* Software Agents: Software is installed on the system to be monitored. The software transmits the collected log data encrypted to the central logging server. A significant advantage is that these monitored systems all work with the same logging standard and thus part of the normalization can be performed decentrally. This assumes that the agent software can be installed on the IT system, which is often not possible with network elements such as routers or security gateways.
* Layer 2 separation: When using switches, it should be noted that VLANs (Virtual Local Area Networks) have not been developed to meet the security requirements of separation of networks. VLANs offer a large number of points of attack, so that additional measures must always be implemented, in particular to separate sensitive networks. More detailed information about VLANs can be found in M .2.277 How a Switch Works.
* Layer 3 separation: Routable components decide on the basis of a protocol on level 3 of the OSI layer model and are therefore an ideal coupling element. In addition, it is possible to use routers to perform a structured IP network separation. The disadvantage, however, is that a router usually shares the memory for processes, the interface management and the access lists, which can lead to resource bottlenecks. Detailed routing, such as subnet separation, autonomous system routing, and the like, can also be very complex in terms of administration.
* VPN connection: This variant is suitable for components with higher protection requirements in terms of confidentiality and integrity, which can be connected, for example, via a public network. The IT systems must have mutually compatible mechanisms to be able to use VPNs. Alternatively, the IT systems can also be connected to VPN appliances that establish the encrypted connection.
* Out-of-band management: In out-of-band management, a separate LAN is used to transfer the log data. Since this LAN is only available for logging and possibly for the administration, access to the network is made more difficult for attackers. Out-of-band management is usually more time-consuming than other processes, because the logging IT system requires an additional network interface and an independent network infrastructure in the information network. The advantage of an administration network is that protocols (in particular SNMP version 1) can be used that are known to be insecure but, due to the lack of available alternative solutions, have to be used for operation, for example through IT-Fr  warning systems, to monitor.




