#M 5.18 Use of the security mechanisms of NIS
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

NIS (Network Information Service) can not be operated without serious security gaps and should therefore only be used in a secure environment.

For an NIS server:

* In the password file / etc / passwd the entry + :: 0: 0 ::: must not be included, otherwise an access with the name + without a password exists. If the entry is necessary, the password must be replaced by a * (check whether the access is really locked!). Nevertheless, the danger remains that in case of accidental deletion of the first column (the +) a privileged access without password and username is possible!
* The same applies to the group file / etc / group and all other security-relevant files that are to be made accessible via NIS throughout the network, such as: For example, / etc / hosts, / etc / group, or / etc / bootparams.
* The server process ypserv should only answer requests from predefined hosts.


For an NIS client:

* The entry +: *: 0: 0 ::: should be documented in the password file / etc / passwd (see M 2.31 Authorized User and Permission Profile Documentation), and there must be an entry in the password field, not so In the event of non-use (intended or unintentional) of NIS, inadvertently access will be provided with the username + password.
* The same applies to the group file / etc / group and all other security-relevant files that are to be made accessible via NIS throughout the network.
* The client process ypbind should only accept data coming from a privileged port, otherwise it could get data (even passwords!) From any process that pretends to be a server.
* In order to prevent the NIS administrator from having root rights on all NIS clients, a local user with the UID 0 should be set up on each NIS client.
* It must be noted that NIS first scans the local files for matching entries. For example, entering root :: 0: 0 ::: +: *: 0: 0 ::: in / etc / passwd causes the root password from the NIS map not to be used, but the first entry without password.




