#M 5.60 Selection of a suitable backbone technology
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, IT Security Officer

Selecting the network protocol in the backbone area is a key factor in protecting the availability of applications in a local area network, as the protocol chosen will significantly increase the performance of the network and the available transmission capacity affected.

In the past, the following basic technologies were used in the backbone area: Ethernet, token ring, FDDI and ATM. As new networks are built or existing networks are expanded, Ethernet is generally used. Ethernet is now regarded as the de facto standard, also in the backbone area, so that choosing a suitable backbone technology essentially involves selecting a suitable version of the Ethernet standard.

A general recommendation to select a certain backbone technology from a security point of view can not be given, as many individual aspects have to be considered.

The individual variants of the Ethernet standard are described below.



## Examples 
* Standard Ethernet standard Ethernet is the precursor of the other variants. It is characterized by a transmission rate of 10 Mbit / s. Standard Ethernet requires either twisted-pair (at least CAT-3) cabling with active switching units such as hubs or switches, bus-type BNC cabling, AUI interface cabling, or fiber optic cabling. Standard Ethernet barely plays a role in today's networks.




