#M 5.166 Configure the Mac OS X Personal Firewall
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The security mechanisms that Mac OS X brings include a personal firewall. A personal firewall offers various security features, such as a packet filter function, to prevent the network communication of certain incoming and outgoing connections of the local system.

Before using Personal Firewall on Mac OS X, two facts must be checked. The personal firewall can filter inbound or outbound connections or limit the access of programs and services to the Internet. Before the network communication is switched off for individual programs, it should be checked whether it is possible to switch off the network communication program-internally. In addition, it should be checked whether there are any unwanted side effects associated with the particular program or service following the blocking of the network communication. Attempting to directly disable the network communication of a program with a personal firewall can cause problems because a program may rely on network communication and wait for a response from the network before continuing the program.

The use of a personal firewall, which is operated directly on the client computer to be protected, under no circumstances replaces a stand-alone security gateway (firewall) that protects the entire internal network of the institution. In order to protect Mac OS X computers with greater protection against attacks from the local network, the use of a personal firewall may be useful. For a mobile use of Mac OS X computers, the use of a personal firewall is always recommended to protect the computer against attacks from the Internet.

Before using a personal firewall, it must be determined which programs should receive network access and which should not. In general, any network communication is initially blocked; in the second step, only the desired ports or applications are enabled. When setting the personal firewall, the recommendations in step M 4.238 Using a local packet filter should be followed.

Mac OS X offers two firewalls that work at different levels:

* Application Firewall The application firewall allows you to lock and unlock communications from specific application programs. For this, the user does not need to know which port is being used. The application firewall also checks the signature of a program. It is not possible to manipulate a program released for network communication without requesting a new firewall rule definition. On Mac OS X, the application firewall is disabled on delivery. This should be under System Preferences | Security | Firewall are activated. The Other options menu item allows you to customize settings: The Block all incoming connections option allows only the following Mac OS X data connection or communication services:
* configd: To implement DHCP and other network configuration services
* mDNSResponder: To implement Bonjour
* racoon: ImplementingIPSecNote: When shares such as File Sharing or Remove Logon are enabled, Mac OS X automatically opens the necessary ports in the firewall that the services can use to communicate. If the Block all incoming connections option is not used, the application firewall list defines which services and programs are allowed to open ports in the firewall. With a mouse click on the + symbol, programs can be added to this list. Once a program has been added to this list, it must be defined whether incoming connections are to be allowed or blocked for this program. Also command line programs can be added to this list. When you add application software to this list, Mac OS X adds a digital signature to the program, if you have not done so before. If a program is subsequently changed that is in the list, the user is again requested to allow or block incoming network connections for the program. Even for programs without a digital signature that are not in this list, the user will see a dialog with options to allow or block connections. Once the user allows or blocks connections, Mac OS X digitally signs the program and automatically appends it to the application firewall list, including permissions granted. If the option Automatically enable signed software to receive incoming connections is activated, all programs that have a digital signature can receive incoming connections, even if the programs are not displayed in the list. This digital signature must be issued by a certification authority (CA) that trusts Apple. Since the Leopard release, every executable Apple operating system component has been digitally signed and can receive incoming connections. Even digitally signed programs, which are automatically opened by other programs, can belong to this group. If the network access of a program with a digital signature is to be blocked via the firewall, the program must first be added to the application firewall list and then the connections must be explicitly blocked. Blocking a program's access through the firewall may interfere with the program or other programs based on it, or affect the performance of other programs and services used. Since this option is not transparent, it should be left out of use. The Activate Tarn Mode option should not be used as this option is in conflict with the Internet standard RFC1122. An activated stealth mode does not send responses to requests originating from a blocked application. Ping, for example, is one of the ICMP messages that no longer work through the stealth mode. The camouflage mode also offers no protection. If the computer were really not available, the last station in front of the computer would report to the sender that the destination is not reachable. In the stealth mode, however, no message comes back. From this, the sender can conclude that the computer is there, but does not answer.
* The packet filter or IP firewall (ipfw) The other personal firewall supplied with Mac OS is the IP firewall (ipfw) or the packet filter. The packet filter works on a lower OSI layer and takes precedence over the application firewall. The IP firewall ipfw is only suitable for the Internet Protocol version 4, if the traffic is to be controlled by IPv6, the command line application IP6FW can be used. If both versions of the Internet protocol are used, several files will inevitably be necessary for the configuration of the firewall, whereby the difference is largely limited to the address formats of IPv4 and IPv6.


The IP firewall and the application firewall can be operated in parallel, and together they enable comprehensive network communication control. The application firewall can be enabled and configured in System Preferences under Security in the firewall menu.

With ipfw it is possible to define finer rules than with the application firewall. The handling is a bit more complicated as it is configured via the command line.

To use ipfw to block a TCP connection to various servers on port 80, the following command can be used:

ipfw add 500 deny tcp from any to any dst port 80

Each firewall rule has a number and is processed by the system from the highest to the lowest number. Thus, a rule can be changed or invalidated by another rule. Since ipfw works very close to the system, administration rights are necessary to execute commands. If an extensive firewall rule is created, the content should be paged out in a configuration file. To automatically load the rules from this configuration file, you need a shell script that looks like this:

#! / Bin / sh

# remove previous FW rules

/ sbin / ipfw -q flush

#IPFW execute and load rules from file

/ sbin / ipfw -q /ABLAGEORT/FirewallRule.conf

# Activate logging to /var/log/system.log

/ usr / sbin / sysctl -w net.inet.ip.fw.verbose = 1

After this, appropriate rights must be assigned to the shell script for the commands to be executed:

sudo chown root: admin Shellscript.sh

sudo chmod 544 Shellscript.sh

After this step, the shell script must be run at each computer startup. On Mac OS X, Apple recommends using launchd for this task. The system service launchd requires a specially formatted file (plist) in the directory / Library / LaunchDaemons to start programs. The content of this file looks like this:

<? xml version = 1.0 encoding = UTF-8?>

<! DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC - // Apple // DTD PLIST 1.0 // EN http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd>

<plist version = 1.0>

<Dict>

<Key> Label </ key>

<String> com.apple.firewall </ string>

<Key> Program Arguments </ key>

<Array>

<String> /usr/local/bin/Shellscript.sh </ string>

</ Array>

<Key> RunAtLoad </ key>

<True />

</ Dict>

</ Plist>

As a last step, this plist file needs to be given permissions, for example with the following command:

sudo chown root: admin NameDer.plist

The changes can be read in and activated directly without a previous restart with the following command:

sudo launchctl load /Library/LaunchDaemons/NameDer.plist

The Personal Firewall log file found at /private/var/log/ipfw.log should be regularly checked for any incidents, such as a high number of failed remote access attempts and logon attempts. Firewall log files can grow very fast and consume a significant amount of disk space. It therefore makes sense to clarify which rules have a high priority and should be logged and which not. A corresponding command can look like this:

ipfw allow log tcp from any to any dst-port 6112-6119

This command logs all connection attempts to a TCP-based server to ports 6112 through 6119.



