#M 5.148 Secure connection of an external network with OpenVPN
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If data is transferred via leased lines or public networks that are not under the control of the institution, they must be adequately protected. If this does not happen, the transmitted data could be intercepted or manipulated. In some circumstances, an attacker could even pretend to be a legitimate communications partner or manipulate the VPN endpoints. OpenVPN is a free software under the GNU GPL (General Public License), which enables the production of Virtual Private Networks (VPN) over encrypted TLS / SSL connections. In essence, OpenVPN is ideal for building site-to-site VPNs, end-to-end VPNs, and remote access VPNs.

OpenVPN accesses the libraries of the OpenSSL program for encryption and optionally uses UDP or TCP as the transport protocol. The use of TLS / SSL as tunneling protocol, unlike IPSec, does not allow to protect the information in the IP headers of the data packets. An advantage, however, is that TLS / SSL does not have the full set of configuration parameters on both sides, as with IPSec.



## Examples 
* Is the IT system running OpenVPN secure and hardened?
* Are secure authentication and encryption procedures with sufficient keys used in OpenVPN deployment?
* Does the key exchange procedure chosen for OpenVPN use meet the security requirements?
* Is it ensured that VPN connections in OpenVPN deployment can only be established between the IT systems and services provided for this purpose?




