#M 5.129 Secure configuration of the HTTP-based services of SAP systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Using the HTTP interface, different services of an SAP system can be addressed. Access to the functions and applications of the Java stack is usually via HTTP. The ABAP stack is accessible via the Internet Connection Framework (ICF) via HTTP. The HTTP interface must generally be securely configured, so that on the one hand, accesses that transmit worthy data are protected by SSL, and on the other hand, only the required services are activated.

The following interfaces accessible via HTTP involve special risks:

* SOAP interface
* WebDAV interface
* Content Server interface


Please note the following:



## Examples 
* The SOAP interface (ABAP stack and Java stack) should be accessible only authenticated.
* SOAP access is to be protected via SSL.
* The ABAP stack provides a SOAP service for calling RFC-capable blocks (ICF path: / sap / bc / soap / rfc). If this is active, RFC blocks can be called via HTTP. The protection of the RFC port of an SAP system by firewalls is thereby avoided. Therefore, the service should only be activated with sufficient security. The same applies to the XML-based RFC service (ICF path: / sap / bc / xrfc).
* The WS-Security protection provided by the Java stack (Web Service Security, W3C and OASIS standards collection) applies only to the data transmitted in SOAP messages. This makes it impossible to check at the application level whether the data has been transmitted over an authenticated connection. Authentication data should therefore be checked in the context of the application if the sender identity is important. To do this, the authentication data must be contained in the SOAP messages. The data must be protected against unauthorized knowledge.




