#M 5.69 Protection against active content
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

When displaying web pages in the browser, not only texts, images and multimedia contents are often loaded, but at the same time program codes (active contents) are also executed, if necessary by means of suitable plug-ins. Well-known examples of active content are JavaScript, Java applets, ActiveX elements, Flash, etc. Running active content in the browser can cause security issues, such as when it downloads malicious programs to the computer or attackers try to access data illegally using active content. Current browsers include security mechanisms that limit the accessibility of active content. However, there are always weaknesses and opportunities known to undermine these security mechanisms.

In order to protect an internal network against misuse by active content from the Internet, several approaches are conceivable, which are presented below.



## Examples 
* Terminal server: The browser is relocated by the client to a terminal server provided for this purpose, which is located in a separate network segment. The client accesses the terminal server via a terminal server protocol (VNC, RDP, ICA, X11, etc.). The browser is remotely controlled in this way. The communication possibilities between the terminal server and the local network are reduced to a minimum by appropriate network-related measures.
* Virtual IT systems: The browser is moved to a separate virtual IT system that can be used by the client. The communication possibilities between the virtual IT system and the client as well as the local network are reduced to a minimum by configuration measures. This solution can also be completely realized on the client.
* Operating System Mechanisms: Some operating systems, with optional add-on components, provide enhanced capabilities to lock off different processes. Examples of this are SELinux and AppArmor. These mechanisms can also be used to execute active content in a separate environment.




