#M 5.78 Protection against creating motion profiles during mobile phone use
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

For mobile communication, the mobile communication partners must be located for technical reasons in order to be reachable. If they set up a connection themselves, they also provide information about their location during connection setup. This location information could be used by the network or service operator, but possibly also by third parties, to form personal or device related movement profiles.

In modern mobile phones, some applications may have access to the Internet and the built-in GPS receiver, and may provide location information that allows third parties to create motion profiles as well. Applications that request these rights for non-functional reasons should not be installed. For all other applications, there is a need to balance the risk of motion profiles with the benefits of the application.

If motion profiles are considered a hazard then, if practicable, the mobile phones and also the SIM cards should be exchanged more frequently among the employees. Thus, an association of the devices and cards to a particular user is at least made more difficult. However, localization via the Radio Resource Location Protocol (RRLP) can not be averted, because both the telephone number and the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) are determined.

If the whereabouts remain undetected at certain times, only switching off the mobile phone will help. To be on the safe side, the battery should be removed.



