#M 5.142 Decrease in IT cabling
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

An acceptance may only take place when all tasks to be performed have been completed, the exporter has reported the acceptance test and no unacceptable defects have been revealed during the inspections by the client. The acceptance date should be selected in time so that the inspection can be prepared for acceptance in sufficient time.

The completion of all tasks to be performed is generally confirmed by the accumulation of these services. In addition to the correct billing and the actual extent of the services, the aspects of information security are to be checked during the acceptance.

The following points make sense as preliminary controls:

* All documentation for installation must be checked for completeness and plausibility.
* Above all, the measurement protocols are to be checked for their values. It is advisable to select particularly striking measurement results for a final measurement during the acceptance.


The execution of the acceptance includes the following controls and activities:

* Entries in floor plan, position and cabinet viewplans are checked for correctness during acceptance.
* The delivery is checked for the correct number and the required quality.
* The professional execution of the services is checked. It is recommended to use samples such. For example, to check the installation of data outlets, to check compliance with bending radii and laying in paths.
* Remarkable measurement results, which were identified during the preparation of the acceptance, are measured.
* The dismantled parts of the plant, the defects and the necessary remainder work are logged.
* Fixed deadlines are agreed for the correction of angels as well as for the completion of remainder and remainder work, which must also be adhered to.
* The warranty and warranty periods are recorded.


It is advisable to prepare the acceptance report as a checklist. The checklist should also contain points on general requirements for the premises, which go beyond the scope of the measure to establish the overall condition and quality of the facilities. As a result, the operation of the plants is supported prudently and precipitation prevented.

These points are not relevant for the acceptance of the IT cabling and will be forwarded to the competent authority.

It is advisable to design the acceptance checklists in such a way that they already document the installation and commissioning and record the measures for the preparation of the acceptance. The checklists should be limited to the required amount. Therefore, it makes sense to question the points contained, where necessary to supplement and to clean up immaterial points.

The acceptance protocol has to be signed legally binding by the participants and responsible persons.

After the acceptance, the remedy of the defects as well as the remainder and remainder of the work must be checked. Insofar as this is contractually and legally permissible, the invoices should be released only after that. The additional comments must be forwarded to the departments concerned.



