#M 5.54 Dealing with unwanted emails
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Unwanted e-mails, also known as spam, are mass-mailed, annoying the recipients and disrupting the ongoing operation of the IT infrastructure, starting with the e-mailing systems to the clients of the users. Unwanted e-mails include chain letters, unwanted advertisements, mend letters, junk mail, phishing e-mails, and emails with malicious code attached. In particular, it becomes dangerous when e-mail attachments are executed, the e-mail is HTML-based or the e-mail recipients are to be lured to manipulated websites via links in the e-mail.

By handling unwanted emails or intentionally overloading incoming emails, not only can the email system be blocked, but it can also be used by the recipient of such emails expensive. Costs include transmission fees, especially if pictures or multimedia files are included in the unwanted e-mails. There are also costs for the filtering of e-mails and / or the working time of the employees, which is needed to view and delete the incoming spam e-mails.

To protect yourself from unwanted emails, every user should restrict the distribution of his email address to the utmost. Users should be particularly careful when publishing the address, for example, in newsgroups or mailing lists, at sweepstakes, surveys or similar forms. In these cases, the setting up of a disposable address should be considered in order to avoid unnecessarily placing a possibly personalized main address in the stranger's hands.

Conversely, care should be taken not to pass on the e-mail addresses of communication partners unchecked. Especially if several people are contacted by e-mail at the same time, not everyone should know who has been contacted at which e-mail address. To avoid this, can. For example, you can use the BCC function (blind carbon copy) that virtually every e-mail client offers.

Also, your own computer should always be free from malware, as there are malware that read the local address books and put on spam distribution lists.

Basically, all users should ignore and delete spam. Under no circumstances may be answered, links followed in the e-mail or attachments executed, as this may have negative effects. A confirmation of the successful delivery of the e-mail is also a confirmation that the e-mail address for the delivery of spam is usable and that the recipient also reads these e-mails. In addition, there is the risk that computers will be infected with malware and thus become part of a botnet. This should also inform all employees.

Possible measures against unwanted emails are the following:

* In order to avoid spam or at least make it recognizable for the recipients, it is necessary to detect and reject unwanted e-mails automatically and automatically. For this purpose, a corresponding e-mail filter systems must be operated (more about this is in measure M 5.109 use of an e-mail scanner on the Mailserverbeschrieben).
* Unwanted e-mails also often contain attachments that can cause unexpected side effects, or file formats that are considered potentially problematic. All concerned should be aware of the problem and take appropriate precautions (see M 4.199 Prevention of problematic file formats).
* Most e-mail clients can be configured to move unwanted e-mail messages to separate folders. Corresponding filter rules can be set up by the users or the administrators. The users should be informed about this.
* Some e-mail clients also have their own detection mechanisms against unwanted e-mail. These can enable users to classify their inboxes accordingly.
* Each institution should determine whether its employees may post articles in newsgroups and, if so, in what form and on which topics. In doing so, users should be informed that the netiquette must be observed, in particular the omission of information that is irrelevant to the general public should be avoided.
* It may be useful not to use easily identifiable e-mail addresses (see also M 2.122 Unified e-mail addresses). If an address is required for mailing lists, queries or similar, there is one another way is to set up a special email address for it. E-mail to this address can then be filtered, ignored or deleted. If you do not want to select sender addresses from your own domain, you can also consider providers of free e-mail accounts.
* In no case should one try to punish spam causers by mail bombs or the like. Spam should not even be answered by a reply. Frequently, the sender details are spammed in spam mails. Answers then only reach innocent people or come back as undeliverable. In any case, responses in turn cause an increase in network traffic, and in the worst case, they even confirm the accuracy of email addresses to advertisers.
* Even if the unwanted e-mail offers the possibility to be deleted for further e-mails, it should never be possible to react to such e-mails. Otherwise, the spammer can use the reply as confirmation that the e-mail address provided is correct.
* A further measure against acute spam bans is the notification of the own mail provider as well as the mail provider of the causer, so that they can act against the causer. However, it should be taken into account that not all mail providers react promptly to such complaints.


It should be noted that not all of these measures in all environments make sense, because they bring various restrictions. On the one hand, it may make sense to use non-user-derived e-mail addresses to protect against unwanted advertising emails. On the other hand, abstract e-mail addresses can make communication with outsiders more difficult because they are harder to remember. The form of the e-mail addresses must in any case comply with the internal organization regulations.

The entry on mailing lists can also cause a high mail load. In general, it should be checked regularly whether the content discussed in a mailing list is worth reading, otherwise it has to be unsubscribed. The users must be informed that after registration on mailing lists the resulting mail load regularly, ie. as possible as possible, is to control. In larger institutions, mailing lists that are interesting for the work should only be subscribed to by one employee (eg the mail administrator) and then made available centrally to all.

Also in the design of websites should be thought of spam. Among other things, spammers try to expand their address pool by automatically searching with their web pages for e-mail addresses, eg e-mail addresses. for inquiries. Unfortunately, there are hardly any effective ways to fail such automatic evaluation tools. Therefore, it should be carefully considered whether and which e-mail addresses are announced on websites. For example, task-related e-mail addresses can be set up for this purpose. These, too, of course, will be spammed with spam, but the problem can be limited in this way. Sufficient time should be provided for the sighting of the incoming mails and the separation of the real incoming mail from the spam.



