#M 5.13 Appropriate use of elements for network coupling
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, IT Security Officer

Devices for network coupling, such as routers, switches or security gateways, not only connect networks but are also used to physically or logically segment networks. By dividing large networks into smaller subnets z. B. the availability can be improved because an error affects only a limited area of ??the network and can be localized there more quickly. With increasing number of IT systems, response times may become unacceptable and subnetworking may become necessary for load separation. Another reason for the segmentation may be the protection of sensitive information so that it is not available on the overall network.

In order to protect against external attackers, it may make sense to allow a transfer of packets only from secure to insecure network, on the other hand, to protect confidential data, it may be useful not to allow transfer of packets from the secure to the insecure network.

The division into network segments or the network coupling can take place on different layers according to the OSI model. Network coupling components in the physical layer (layer 1) of the OSI model are z. B. Repeater, in the link layer (layer 2) z. B. Bridges or switches, at the network layer (layer 3) z. B. Routers and at the application layer (layer 7) generally security gateways.

Taking into account the requirements for network segmentation, suitable network coupling elements must be selected according to the OSI reference model.



## Examples 
* The bridge separates collision domains, d. Performance-reducing collisions on CSMA / CD-based networks do not get into the other segment.
* A bridge only routes those data packets to another segment, which also have their destination address there. As a result, the data traffic is limited to the segment required in each case, which increases the security of security.
* Finally, this also increases the data throughput in each segment, since data can be transmitted independently on each side of the bridge and thus a load separation takes place.




