#M 5.8 Regular security check of the network
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The network administrator should regularly, at least monthly, carry out a security check of the network. For virtually all operating systems, programs are available or are already included with the operating system or operating system distribution that provide the features.

In such a security check, for example, the following points should be checked:

* Are there any users whose passwords do not meet the required password policy requirements?
* Are there users who have not used the net for a long time?
* Which users have the same rights as the administrator?
* Are system programs and system configurations unchanged and consistent?
* The permissions of system programs and system configurationsApplication programs and dataUser directories and data requirements of the security policy?
* Which network services run on the individual systems? Are they configured according to the security policy?


With a regular security check, penetration tests can also be integrated in the local subnet. The degree of penetration tests can be varied (for example: simple automated checks every week, monthly more thorough tests with partial manual execution, once a year a thorough test of the entire network).

When carrying out the security check, the network administrator should document his steps in such a way that they can be traced (for example, if a compromised system is suspected). Likewise to document are the results of the safety check. In addition, deviations from the nominal condition must be investigated.



