#M 5.93 Security of WWW browsers when using Internet PCs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The World Wide Web (WWW) is certainly one of the most important services offered on the Internet. In addition to the mere retrieval of information, it also serves today as a platform for interactive offers, such as. in e-business and e-government. On Internet PCs is therefore in most cases a browser, d.h. a client program for the use of WWW offers needed. Popular WWW browsers are z. B. Firefox, Microsoft Internet Explorer and Opera, Google Chrome and Safari.

The browser technology has developed rapidly. From the original ability to load and display text and images from the Internet, WWW browsers have become universal front-ends for net-based applications. Browsers can view and play a variety of different media formats and also serve as a runtime environment for programs and scripts, called active content. The latter include the technologies Java, Javascript and ActiveX. The functional scope of modern browsers can be extended by so-called plug-ins.

This variety of features brings complex configuration options and potential security issues. The following recommendations for configuring browsers when using Internet PCs should take these security aspects into account.



## Examples 
* Are browsers only installing the required software components, especially plug-ins?
* Are the browser updates and patches provided by the manufacturer installed regularly and in a timely manner?
* Is it ensured that software components of the browser, such as plug-ins, patches, updates, and viewers, are obtained exclusively from trustworthy sources?
* Is the execution of active content in the browser only permitted to the extent that is expressly provided for in the deployment concept or in the guidelines for Internet PCs?
* Is there no need to store user data or passwords for WWW forms?
* Is it ensured that downloaded files are not automatically opened?
* Are downloaded files scanned with a virus protection program before they are opened or started?




