#M 5.68 Use of encryption methods for network communication
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Communication networks transport data between IT systems. The data is rarely transmitted over a dedicated communication line between the partners involved in the communication. Rather, the data is passed through many intermediate stations. Depending on the communication medium and the technology used, the data can be intercepted by the intermediate stations without authorization, or even by third parties located in the respective switching network (eg when using the Ethernet protocol without point-to-point networking). , Since the data to be transmitted should not be intercepted, modified or used for later re-entry into the network by unauthorized third parties, a suitable mechanism must be used to prevent this. Encrypting the data with - if necessary-mutual authentication of the communication partners can reduce this risk (depending on the strength of the encryption method used and the security of the keys used) (see also block  B  1.7 crypto concept).

Typically, applications communicate with each other to exchange application-related information. Encryption of the data can now be done on several levels:

* At the application level: The communicating applications must always have the appropriate encryption and decryption mechanisms.
* At the operating system level: Encryption is performed by the local operating system. Any communication over the network will be encrypted automatically or on request.
* At the network coupling element level: Encryption takes place between the network coupling elements (eg router).


The individual mechanisms have specific advantages and disadvantages. Encryption at the application level has the advantage that the encryption is completely subject to the control of the respective application. One disadvantage is that encrypted communication is only possible with a partner application equipped with the same encryption mechanism. Furthermore, appropriate authentication mechanisms between the two partner applications can be used.

In contrast, in the case of encryption at operating system level, encryption takes place transparently for each application. Each application can communicate encrypted with any other application provided that the operating system under which the partner application is running has the encryption mechanism. The disadvantage here is that in an authentication only the computers can be mutually authenticated, and not the respective partner applications.

The use of encrypting network coupling elements has the advantage that no encryption mechanisms must be present on the application and computer side; Encryption is also transparent here for the communication partners. However, the communication on the route to the first encrypting network coupling element takes place without encryption and thus poses a residual risk. Authentication is only possible between the coupling elements here. The actual communication partners are not authenticated here.

If sensitive data is transmitted over a network (even within the intranet), the use of encryption mechanisms is recommended. If the applications used do not offer their own encryption mechanism or if the offered method is classified as too weak, then the possibility of encryption on the operating system side should be used. Here are z. B. Procedures such as SSL designed for transparent encryption at the operating system level. Depending on the security policy, encrypting network coupling elements can also be used, for example, to implement a virtual private network (VPN) with a communication partner via the Internet (corresponding software mechanisms are usually also used in firewall systems (see block B 3.301 Security gateway (firewall)) available).

When using encrypted communication and mutual authentication, extensive planning is required within the framework of the security policy of a company or a public authority. In the context of the communication encryptions mentioned here, the following points in particular should be taken into account:

* Which methods should be used for encryption or are offered (eg in routers)?
* Do the used encryption mechanisms support / use existing or planned standards (IPSec, IPv4, IPv6, IKE)?
* In accordance with security policy, have sufficiently strong procedures and a correspondingly long key been selected?
* Are the keys kept safe?
* Are the keys generated in a secure environment, and are they safely routed to the required point of use (computer, software component)?
* Are Key Recovery Mechanisms Necessary?


When using certificates for the authentication of communication partners similar questions have to be considered.



