#M 5.22 Compatibility check of the transmitter and receiver system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible

Depending on the degree of compatibility of the receiver and transmitter system, information can be more or less reliably transmitted by means of data medium exchange. Depending on the complexity of the data to be exchanged, different compatibility requirements must be met. Therefore, before establishing a regular data exchange, the consistency of the following characteristics should be checked in order to identify incompatibilities in advance and remedy where necessary:

* Physical medium: Of course, it is necessary that the physical media of the receiver and transmitter system coincide. However, mechanical equivalence is not enough, because the inconsistency of parameters such as velocity in bands can lead to problems.
* Character code (eg ASCII or EBCDIC): If the sender and receiver system match in the character code used, physical sectors are used to read individual sectors or blocks in clear text that are distributed incoherently on the data carrier can be. If the character codes used do not match, the transmitted data will be interpreted incorrectly.
* Formatting the operating system or file system of the data carrier: In addition, both systems have the same operating and file system or the recipient operating system can read formatting of other operating systems (not all Unix operating systems) read NTFS volumes), then all the files as they were at the sender can be recovered. This is sufficient for information that is not subject to any further formatting as is done by most application programs (eg word processors).
* Application software: If application programs were used to generate the files to be transmitted, it is important to ensure that these programs are identical in terms of their versions, since the file formats may differ. The version equality does not have to exist if the program versions are upwards or downwards compatible.
* Security software and security parameters: If security products or protection mechanisms of certain application programs (see M 4.30 Use of security functions offered in application programs) are also used, the compatibility of these products must be ensured. About the keys or passwords used m The consignor and the consignee can communicate in an appropriate way.


If incompatibilities arise, additional arrangements or products must be made which provide for appropriate conversion, or the sender and receiver systems must be suitably equipped.



