#M 5.89 Configuring the secure channel under Windows
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Between computers of a Windows domain, administrative data must be exchanged. For example, domain controllers of a domain exchange administrative data. In general, sensitive data is transported, which must be transmitted securely. Under Windows NT, the so-called Secure Channel was available for this purpose. Even on Windows 2000 or later, this mechanism is used and must be configured according to security requirements and local conditions. In this case, the authentication of the two communication partners, encryption to maintain confidentiality and signatures to ensure integrity are used as security mechanisms.

The configuration of the secure channel is done via group policies. When configuring it, consider the following:

* Mutual authentication is always guaranteed, but encryption and signature can be required independently of each other. If the communication partner does not support the required protection, this is not used. The communication is then unsecured.
* Encryption or signature can be specified as a necessary prerequisite for communication recording. If the communication partner does not support the backup, no communication is established. For example, this may result in clients being unable to log on to a domain. This option should only be enabled if all IT systems in a domain and all IT systems of all known domains support encryption and signing.
* The strength of the session key generated for encryption can be increased from the Windows NT level to the level of Windows 2000 or higher. However, this option may only be used if all IT systems of a domain and all IT systems of all known domains are exclusively operated with a version as of Windows 2000. When enabled, IT systems that have earlier operating systems installed can no longer log in to the domain.


The group policy parameters that are relevant for the configuration under Windows 2000 are:

* Secure channel: Digitally sign secure channel data (if possible)
* Secure channel: digitally encode secure channel data (if possible)
* Secure Channel: Digitally encode or sign secure channel data (always)
* Secure Channel: Strong session key required (128-bit encryption, whenever Windows 2000 or higher)


These parameters can be found under Computer Configuration | Windows Settings | Security Settings | Local Policies | Security Options.

For clients as of Windows XP, the settings are:

* Domain member: digitally sign secure channel data (if possible)
* Domain member: digitally encode secure channel data (if possible)
* Domain Member: Digitally encrypt or sign secure channel data (always)
* Domain member: Strong session key required (128-bit encryption, whenever Windows 2000 or higher)
* Domain Member: Disable changes to computer passwords
* Domain member: Maximum age of computer passwords (default: 30 days, should not be changed to larger values ??under normal circumstances)


These parameters can be found under Computer Configuration | Windows Settings | Security Settings | Local Policies | Security Options. All options should be activated accordingly.



