#M 5.90 Use of IPSec under Windows
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Windows provides an IPSec-compliant implementation to secure communications. IPSec is an international standard that allows cryptographic validation of IP-based communications. It must be decided on a case-by-case basis whether IPSec should be used for communication protection. This must be taken into consideration when planning the Windows deployment and defined by means of a guideline.

IPSec includes the following features:

* Mutual authentication of communication endpoints
* Ensuring the integrity of the transmitted data through digital signatures
* Securing the confidentiality of the transmitted data or the entire IP data packet by encryption (tunnel mode)


General information on the selection of suitable cryptographic methods can be found in M 2.164 Selection of a suitable cryptographic method. When using IPSecein algorithm, the SHHA-2 family should be used as the hash method, ie SHA-224, SHA-256, SHA-384 or SHA-512.

These are supported, for example, in the IPSec client, which is part of the firewall on clients as of Windows Vista. This feature is standard on Windows 7 and Windows Vista since Service Pack 1. Without Service Pack 1, this IPSec client under Windows Vista only supports the weaker hash procedures MD5 and SHHA1. These should no longer be used.

In order to ensure, in addition to the integrity and confidentiality of the transmitted data, that the data is exchanged between the correct communication partners, they must be authenticated. The Windows implementation allows the following methods to authenticate the communication endpoints:

* The Kerberos protocol can be used provided that both communication partners are within the same Active Directory structure. Here the normal Windows authentication takes place. This method is based on symmetric keys that are used to encrypt the so-called Kerberos tickets.
* X.509 certificates can be used. In this case, the authentication is based on asymmetric keys, based on the certificate information. As a rule, a so-called challenge-response procedure is used. It checks if the user to be authenticated owns the correct private key. TheIPSec function DirectAccess uses this variant. The authentication method with X.509 certificates should be used when Internet access, remote access to corporate resources, communication with external business partners, or use of computers without the Kerberos protocol is required.


As part of the first IPSec connection set-up, the algorithms and procedures for authentication, integrity assurance and confidentiality between the communication partners to be subsequently used are initially negotiated and stored in the so-called Security Association (SA).

These parameters stored in the SA are used for all future communication links until the validity of the SA parameters expires and the procedures are renegotiated. This is usually done fully automatically by the components of the IPSec implementation.

For the actual encryption key, the so-called master and the session key (session key) must be generated. As a rule, the master key, from which all other keys are derived, is created only once per connection, whereas the session key is generated periodically several times. It is also possible to periodically re-create the master key, but this requires a renewed authentication of the communication partners. Typically, the re-authentication is done automatically by the components of the IPSec implementation so that performance is essentially affected by it.

IPSeccepts two different methods of securing communications: Encapsulated Security Payload (ESP) and Authentication Header (AH). Starting with Windows Server 2008, AH is no longer supported because this method has little practical meaning due to the associated disadvantages (no implementation of network addresses per NAT possible).

To control IPSec-based communication, Windows provides so-called IPSec Policies (IPSec Policies) that specify which IPSec parameters to use for a connection. As of Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008, the IPSec policies are also called connection security rules. Various guidelines can be reached

* thatIT systems assume exclusively IPSec-protected connections,
* thatIT systems request IPSec-protected connections at the communication partner, but also allow unprotected communication if the partner does not supportIPSecprotocol,
* or that IPSec-based communication is excluded.


Starting with version 2000, Windows offers three predefined IPSec policies, which will no longer apply as of Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008:

* Client (only answer): for IT systems that negotiate IPSec protection only at the request of the communication partner and otherwise do not carry out communication protection.
* Server (request security): for IT systems that request IPSec-protected connections from their communication partners, but also accept connections without protection if the communication partner does not support IPSec.
* Server (security required): for IT systems that are designed to establish IPSec-protected connections only and deny unsecured connection requests.


These predefined rules can be adapted to the local requirements in detail. It is advisable to first make a copy and make the changes to the copy of the guideline.

As part of an IPSec policy, so-called filter rules are used to define different IPSec parameters, for example, depending on the protocol used. For example, it can be set to keep HTTP unscrambled while FTP is always encrypted.

The Windows versions from Windows Vista allow the configuration of the IPSec policies via Group Policy under Computer Configuration | Windows Settings | Windows Firewall with Advanced Security | Connection security rules, in Windows Server 2008 the Configuration Editor is under Administration | Windows Firewall with Advanced Security | Connection rules. Starting with Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008, Microsoft does not provide predefined IPSec policies. However, the New Connection Security Rules wizard helps with their configuration. IPSec is enabled either through Group Policy or locally in the Properties dialog for network connections. The activation in the properties dialog is not available from Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008. Here, IPSec is configured and enabled by creating connection security rules in the Windows Firewall.

As of Windows Server 2008, the configuration of rules for the local firewall and IPSecin of the interface has been brought together to simplify the administration and eliminate errors from conflicting IPSec and firewall rules.

In general, the following should be considered when using IPSecunter Windows:

* Before using IPSec, it must be checked whether the performance losses associated with the activation can be tolerated. Consideration may be given to using network adapters with the TCP / IP Offload Engine (TOE) to perform compute-intensive tasks on the TCP / IP protocol stack on the network adapter in order to relieve the CPU.
* For greater protection of the session keys, the option Perfect Forward Secrecy (PFS) should be activated. This ensures that after compromising a session key, only the data encrypted with this single session key can be decrypted. This is achieved by
* that a session key used to encrypt data is not used to create more keys, and
* that the key source material used to create a session key is not used once more to create a session key. While this results in little performance penalty, it usually does not matter ,
* For connections with high protection requirements, option PFS can also be activated for the master key. However, this leads to greater performance penalties than PFS for session keys, since each time an authentication of the communication partners has to be carried out.
* For each specific case, it must be decided which mechanisms and procedures should be available for authentication and to ensure integrity and confidentiality during the IPSec negotiation during connection establishment. It has to be considered that at least one procedure has to exist between the communication partners, which support both partners.
* If your own IPSec guidelines are created, then a so-called default response rule must always be defined. This applies if no other filter rule of the directive applies. If the default response rule is missing, it may happen that no connection is established between the communication partners. The default response rule is not needed for using DirectAccess.
* The filter rules of an IPSec policy allow, among other things, the IPSec protection to be bound to the IP address of the communication partner, so that the encryption can be activated depending on the communication partner.
* If the Kerberos mechanism is used for authentication, the authentication is not IPSec-secured, as Kerberos is not handled as part of the IPSec connection. After importing the Windows 2000 Service Pack 1, the IPSec protection can also be activated for the Kerberos protocol. For this purpose, however, an intervention in the registry is necessary (see also the Microsoft knowledgebase articles KB254728 and KB811832): Under HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE / SYSTEM / CurrentControlSet / Services / IPSEC (as of Windows Vista under HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE | SYSTEM | CurrentControlSet | Services | PolicyAgent) the Schl  ssel NoDefaultExempt of type REG_DWORD with the value 1.
* In order to verify the correct functioning of the IPSec connection setup and the IPSec communication, Windows 2000 provides the program ipsecmon.exe, Windows XP the MMC Snap-in IP Security Monitor, and as of Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008 the Windows Firewall snap-in with extended security available. The program or snap-in can be used to isolate the source of the error if there are problems with IPSec connections. However, the program is relatively simple, so it can only be used for a first root cause research.
* IPSec should be used inter alia in combination with EFS-encrypted files (see also M 4.147 Secure use of EFS under Windows) if they are to be stored on servers and secured over the network to a client. In addition, any other mechanism for securing network communication can be used to protect server-side stored EFS files during transport.
* If the communication with a system that does not have Windows as the operating system is to be protected by IPSec, the interoperability and correct function must be checked in a practical test. Although the IPSec process is standardized, in some cases compatibility problems may arise even with standardized processes.




