#M 5.131 Secure IP protocols on Windows Server 2003
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The TCP / IP stack is enabled after a default installation. The default security settings are a compromise between security on the one hand and downward compatibility and openness to other systems on the other hand. This is only partially adequate and there is only limited sufficiency, so it should be considered to increase the basic setting to a higher safety level. For advanced settings to prevent denial-of-service attacks, see M 4.279 Advanced Security Considerations for Windows Server 2003.

Note: As of Windows Server 2003 with Service Pack 1, the Security Configuration Wizard (SCW) sets some additional settings for certain roles automatically to prevent denial-of-service attacks (see   4.22 Software Vulnerabilities or Errors) (see p  2.366 Using Security Templates on Windows Server 2003).



## Examples 
* It is best to select the most appropriate protocol, all other protocols must be disabled.
* Especially for protocols of the application layer, you must always ensure integrity and encrypted authentication in a Windows Server 2003 environment, as far as possible using NTLMv2 or Kerberos.
* With higher protection requirements, the user data must be encrypted.
* The use of the desired protocol should be defined in the IT Compatibility Guidelines and the IT systems involved and appropriate security requirements should be formulated.
* The use of IPSec should be considered if a desired protocol under Windows Server 2003 does not comply with the security requirements (see M 5.90 Using IPSec under Windows).




