#M 5.52 Safety requirements for the communication computer
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Depending on the type of teleworking and the tasks to be performed, a teleworker's access to institutional data is different. It is conceivable that only e-mails are exchanged between the teleworker and the institution. On the other hand, access to servers in the institution may be necessary for the teleworker. However, regardless of the access methods, the institution's communication computer must generally meet the following security requirements:

* Identification and authentication: All users of the communication computer, ie administrators, employees in the institution and teleworkers, must identify and authenticate themselves before accessing the computer. After multiple failed attempts access must be blocked. Default passwords must be changed. If necessary, it must also be possible for the communication computer to initiate a renewed authentication of the teleworker or the teleworking computer during the data transmission, in order to fend off the attackers who have been attacked Identification and authentication of users should also be followed by an identification of the teleworkers (for example, via telephone numbers and callback procedures). It is advisable to use only strong authentication procedures to secure access to teleworking. For example, chip cards, so-called tokens or even biometric methods could be used for this purpose.
* Role separation: The roles of administrators and users of the communication computer are to be separated. Rights can only be assigned to administrators.
* Rights management and control: Access to files of the communication computer may only be made within the scope of the approved rights. In addition, in particular access to connected computers in the institution and files stored on it must be regulated. Access and accessibility options must be limited to the minimum required. In the event of a system crash or irregularities, the communication computer must be in a secure state in which access may no longer be possible.
* Minimality of services: Services provided by the communication computer must be subject to the principle of minimality: everything is prohibited, which is not expressly permitted. The services themselves should be limited to the extent necessary for the tasks of teleworkers.
* Logging: Data transmissions from, to and via the communication computer are to be logged with time, user, addresses and service. The administrators or revisers should have tools available to evaluate the log data. Disclosures should be reported automatically.
* Automatic computer virus check: Transferred data is subjected to an automatic check for computer viruses.
* Encryption: Data stored on the communication computer for teleworkers must be encrypted if there is a corresponding need for protection with respect to confidentiality (in accordance with the organization-wide information security directive). In general, the communication between the telework computer and the communication computer should be encrypted.
* Avoidance or safeguarding of remote administration: If the communication computer does not require remote administration, all functions for remote administration must be disabled. However, as remote administration is generally required, it must be adequately secured (eg via a VPN tunnel or a dedicated connection). Any remote administration may take place only after prior successful identification and authentication. It should be considered to log the activities during the remote administration. Administration access data and configuration data may only be encrypted. Default passwords and cryptographic keys are to be changed.




