#M 5.70 Address Translation - NAT (Network Address Translation)
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Network Address Translation (NAT) is a mechanism whereby an active network component (typically a router) changes the IP address of the packet when forwarding a packet. The router stores in a table the assignment of the internal address and the internal source port to the external address, destination port and the port which the router itself has selected for the changed packet and converts the response packets accordingly.

NAT can be used for various purposes:

* NAT can prevent its structure from being reset based on the IP addresses in the local network, because only the IP address of the NAT gateway is visible from the external network. At the same time, this prevents attackers from directly attacking individual computers in the internal network.
* The local network often requires more IP addresses than are officially registered. When using a NAT gateway, only one official IP address is required for each network, the internal addresses can be chosen as desired. When setting up an internal network, internal addresses should only be used from the areas w Are officially designated for such purposes (see RFC 1918 - Address Allocation for Private Internets). These ranges are: 10.0.0.0 - 10.255.255.255 (8-bit netmask) 172.16.0.0 - 172.31.255.255 (12-bit netmask) 192.168.0.0 - 192.168.255.255 (16-bit netmask) These addresses are not common in the Internet Routed and must therefore be implemented at the gateway to the Internet in an officially assigned IP address.
* Occasionally, any IP addresses were used when building an internal network. When connecting such a network to the Internet, these previously used IP addresses can often not be used because the address range in question has been assigned to other institutions. In order not to have to reconfigure all computers, an address conversion from the internal to the officially registered external addresses can make sense. However, problems with name resolution will often occur in this case and the computers to which the internally used addresses are assigned on the Internet will not be reachable from the internal network. This situation can also occur when the Internet provider changes.
* When two networks with IP addresses from the RFC-1918 areas are combined, an address translation may also be necessary if the same addresses were used in both networks.


A conversion of the internal into one or more officially registered IP addresses and vice versa takes place via an address translation component. Proxies also have an implicit address conversion, since the proxy uses only its official address externally and forwards the data packets to the respective internal computers.

Address translation by routers or dedicated packet filters can be done either statically or dynamically. The static address translation is simple and fast. Each internal address is assigned exactly one external one. Of course, exactly one external one is required for each internal address.

More often, dynamic address translation is used, especially if the number of internal IP addresses is greater than the number of external IP addresses. In the router or packet filter, an assignment table is maintained, in which the internal addresses with the associated port number of a packet are assigned to an external address with a new port number. Often, only one IP address is visible to the outside, which hides all internal IP addresses via the port number assignment.

A consequence of the dynamic address conversion is that a connection to an internal computer from the Internet is normally not possible. If this is to be possible, the security gateway must master Destination NAT or Port Forwarding (see below).

Certain services have to be specially treated when addressing addresses (eg traceroute or ftp).



## Examples 
* Do the internal addresses assigned to the internal network comply with the RFC 1918 standard?
* Is the use of NAT aligned with the organization's security policies?
* Does the port forwarding comply with the security regulations of the organization?




