#M 5.62 Suitable logical segmentation
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

With the help of suitable active network components, it is also possible to logically segment this network despite a fixed physical segmentation of the network. The possibility for this is offered by so-called virtual LANs (VLANs). With VLANs, groups in the network can be grouped as if they were in the same physical segment. Above all, this gives rise to the possibility of grouping groups dynamically and in a timely manner in order to regroup without having to intervene in physical networking.

There are two types of VLANs: static and dynamic VLANs. With static VLANs (also called port-based VLANs), individual switch ports are permanently assigned to a VLAN, regardless of the connected device. For dynamic VLANs, the identity of a VLAN is controlled, for example, by the MAC address or IP address of the connected device. Since these contents can be easily manipulated, even with normal protection requirements, it should be avoided, if possible, to use dynamic VLANs. Therefore, they will not be considered further below.

To effectively separate a network with VLANs, you can choose an architecture that consists of four zones:

* Internal network,
* Security Gateway Zone (ALG Zone),
* Internet connection and
* Management Zone) (see M 2.476 Conception for Secure Internet Connection). The zones must be physically separated. Based on this, corresponding subnetworks can be formed (see also M 5.77 Formation of Subnetworks).


In any case, the following basic conditions for subnetworks must be met with regard to the need for protection:

* Within a VLAN, only specialized procedures / working groups with the same protection requirements should be located.
* The protection requirements of the subnets to be separated may only be either normal or high. For very high protection requirements, no VPNs should be used for security reasons.
* If the protection requirements of the subnets to be separated are the same, the use of VLANs is fundamentally harmless. An exception, however, is for the case that the owners of the VLANs are different institutions. In this case, the separation should either be physical or encryption should be used to protect the transferred information from unauthorized access.
* If the protection requirements of the subnetworks to be separated differ, the use of VLANs depends on the deployment scenarios (see Deployment scenarios of VLANs).


In addition to the basic conditions with regard to the protection requirement mentioned above, the following general technical requirements for the network coupling elements must also be observed:

* Under no circumstances may a connection between a zone in front of an application-level gateway (connection to the Internet) and the internal network behind it be created.
* VLANs do not provide any significant protection against the physical transmission technology (cables, connectors, interface etc.). If, for example, passwords are transmitted in plain text, then they can be intercepted. Therefore, additional security measures, such as encryption, must be implemented.
* The backplane and uplink ports of the active network components used must have sufficient throughput.
* The switches used must be securely configured (see M 4.202 Basic router configuration and switches for a secure network configuration of routers and switches).




## Examples 
* Are there only specialist procedures or working groups of the same protection requirement within a VLAN?
* Were the zones physically separated from each other?
* Is it ensured that no VLANs are used in the case of very high protection requirements?
* Is it ensured that there are no connections between a zone in front of an application-level gateway (connection to the Internet) and internal networks behind it?
* Is data in VLANs adequately protected against eavesdropping, for example by encryption?
* Internal network: is there a clean separation (physically or by encryption) for VLANs that belong to different institutions?




