#M 5.44 Unilateral connection
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In most cases, there is exactly one telephone line for a modem. On the one hand, the modem initiates outgoing calls and, on the other hand, accepts incoming calls. So that no attacker can take unnoticed access to the connected IT system, at least one callback mechanism should be used here (see also M 5.30 Activation of an existing callback option).

Despite an activated callback, the problem may be that an incoming connection will not be triggered unless the caller hangs up. The public exchange terminates such a connection only after a certain period of time. This problem occurs primarily when no PBX triggers the connection.

This allows an attacker to initiate a callback, but at the same time keep the line busy, so that the modem correctly dials the stored callback number, but still remains connected to the attacker.

To prevent this, it should first be checked whether an incoming connection will be disconnected even if the caller does not hang up. If this is not the case and it can not be guaranteed that all modem connections are monitored by a supervisor, it should be considered to work with separate telephone connections with unilateral connection establishment, ie. with one connection for outgoing and one for coming connections. This requires a separate modem for each connection and the execution of the callback via the application. Make sure that the modem does not answer calls automatically for outgoing calls (S0 = 0, ie no auto-answer). So that the modem can not establish any connections to the outside for incoming connections, the modem connection should either be blocked at the internal PBX for outgoing connections or an appropriate block must be requested from Telekom.



