#M 5.34 Use of one-time passwords
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In networks where passwords are transmitted unencrypted, they are relatively easy to listen to. In addition, implementation or protocol errors in operating systems and application software can cause encrypted passwords to be compromised.

Therefore, it is recommended to use one-time passwords, which are passwords that have to be changed after a single use. One-time passwords can be generated by software or hardware.

When using one-time passwords, the user must generate the one-time password on the local IT system or through a token, or read from a list that has been generated by the remote IT system and must be kept secure. The remote IT system must then verify the one-time password.

Tokens that handle the generation of one-time passwords are small, portable hardware components. These can be, for example, chip cards or pocket-like devices. The user must first authenticate to the token. After successful user authentication, either the token authenticates itself independently to the server or it displays to the user on a display the one-time password to be entered on the client.

Since more and more sensitive information is only protected by passwords from third-party access, one-time password systems and hardware-based authentication methods are becoming increasingly important.

Since more and more sensitive information is only protected by passwords from third-party access, one-time password systems and hardware-based authentication methods are becoming increasingly important.

Many hardware-based systems also provide the ability to build single sign-on solutions. A single sign-on process ensures that users do not need to identify themselves to each IT system or application with a different password. Instead, users log on to an IT system or to a special portal and can then use additional applications or IT systems without additional manual authentication.

Hardware-based one-time password systems also eliminate many of the controls required by M 2.11 control of password usage, which must be taken into account by the individual users, since this is taken over by the one-time password systems.



