#M 5.94 Security of e-mail clients when using internet PCs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

E-mail is one of the most important intranet and Internet services. In modern office communication, e-mail is used as an add-on and partly as a replacement for the traditional means of communication such as telephone, fax, letter and teletype. The e-mail traffic has also been significantly upgraded by the ability to transport files in the form of attachments. As a result, e-mail is often used as a groupware solution, for example when several communication partners work on one document in succession.

On a technical level, there are different ways to use e-mail. One possibility is the use of webmail services, as offered by several service providers on the Internet, eg. Web.de or gmx. These offers provide the user with all the functions needed to receive, read, compose, send, and manage e-mails via a WWW interface. The use happens thus - like every other WWW offer - over a Browser. The benefits of webmail services are

* that next to the browser no further software components have to be installed on the client and
* therefore, the user is not bound to a particular computer or location for the use of e-mail.


The disadvantage, however, is that the security of e-mail use is largely in the hands of the webmail provider. Recommendations for the secure use of webmail can be found in measure M 5.96 Secure use of webmail.

The classic method for using e-mail is to use an appropriate client program such as Microsoft Outlook, Outlook Express, Thunderbird or KMail. In order to pick up incoming e-mail from the provider, the protocol POP3 (Post Office Protocol Version 3) or IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) is usually used. Outgoing e-mail is sent using the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP). For this purpose, the addresses of the servers for outgoing and incoming e-mails must be entered when configuring the client program. It is recommended to request the IP addresses of these servers from the provider and set them permanently in the client program.

Before the incoming e-mail can be transmitted from the provider to the client, the client usually has to authenticate itself to the e-mail server. This authentication is usually done by a password, which is transmitted in plain text to the respective server, if no additional security measures are used. As a result, there is a risk that the password will be read over during transport over the Internet and then abused. To prevent this, all communication with the e-mail server should be encrypted using TLS / SSL. This also protects the emails in the transmission from compromising and manipulation. The possibility of securing access via POP3 or IMAP using TLS / SSL is now offered by many providers (see also RFC 2595).

The password for access to the e-mail server at the provider should be long enough and not easy to guess, so that unauthorized persons can not access the e-mail. It should also be changed regularly. The question of whether the e-mail password may be stored on the Internet PC or whether it must be re-entered with each access, can not be answered in general. This depends on how many authentication processes the user has to go through in total (logon to the client, dial in to the ISP, etc.) and how much the risk is protected by improper use. Further recommendations on passwords are included in measure M 2.11 Password usage control.

Some e-mail clients provide the ability to create e-mails in HTML or Rich Text Format (RTF). The problem with HTML format is that it also contains active content, eg. Javascript, and references to other objects on the Internet can be included. This has already repeatedly led to security problems. Therefore, no emails should be sent in HTML format. If necessary formatting elements, such as. Font and color, is to use the RTF format instead. The client programs should therefore be configured to create and send e-mails in plain text or RTF format.

For incoming HTML-formatted emails, the client should be configured so that it does not display any active content when viewing such emails. Some e-mail clients do not display HTML formatted emails themselves, but start an external viewer or browser. In this case, a viewer or browser should be used that does not execute active content. In addition, it should be ensured that when reading the e-mail no access to other objects on the Internet, for example by the Internet connection is disconnected beforehand. Alternatively, HTML-formatted emails can also be opened with a plain text editor. Due to the contained controls (tags) the content can be read hard.

Some client programs offer a preview feature for emails. The content of a selected e-mail is displayed without being explicitly opened by the user. As a result, there is a risk that harmful content in e-mails will be executed unintentionally. The preview function should therefore be deactivated.

Attachments, d. h. Files attached to the actual text in the e-mail are a popular transport medium for computer viruses, worms, and other malware. The file name extension (.jpg, .exe, etc.) displayed in the e-mail program also does not always agree with the actual file type. There are techniques that can hide the actual filename extension in certain client programs. Therefore, attachments in incoming emails should generally be treated with suspicion, especially if the consignment is not agreed or the sender is unknown. Before opening or starting, attachments should be saved and checked with a virus protection program.

Executable files and files that can make changes to the system configuration, such as .exe, .vbs, .reg on Windows, or shell scripts on Linux, should not be started without the approval of the Administration. Attention should also be paid to attachments that apparently have no relation to the usual business relationship with the sender, eg. Erotic offers from the tax consultant, or if the e-mail is written in a language other than usual. In such cases, the attachments that may be included should not initially be opened, but the administration or the IT security officer should be informed. For clarification, the sender can also ask what the attachments are.

For Windows, only programs that can not execute macros or embedded scripts should be configured as standard applications. For most common document or file types, eg. Word or Excel files, corresponding viewer are available. The installation of full-fledged application programs, such as Microsoft Office, should be left out as far as possible. Instead of the default setting Merge an editor should be configured as standard application for the file type .reg. Otherwise, the registry entries contained in the file are entered in the registry of the Internet PC by double-clicking or by otherwise opening the file. This configuration change may cause u. a. Security settings are disabled unintentionally. The default application for file types can be opened from Explorer via the View | Options | File types are changed.

In many cases, information via e-mail is also transmitted, the confidentiality and integrity of which must be protected by the sender to the recipient during transport. Encryption and digital signatures can be used for this purpose. The problem here is that different methods, such as S / MIME, GnuPG or PGP and MailTrusT, have been established for the cryptographic protection of e-mail that are not or only partially interoperable. Before encryption or digital signature can be used for e-mails, it is therefore necessary to coordinate with the communication partners as to which method (s) are used (see also M 5.63 Using GnuPG or PGP). The software components required for this purpose are frequently offered as plug-ins for common e-mail programs. If several different e-mail encryption plug-ins are to be used, care must be taken to ensure that no technical problems arise because they are installed in the same e-mail program.

When receiving or reading incoming messages, common e-mail programs provide the ability to request receive or read credentials. For a receipt confirmation, the recipient's server must support the Delivery Service Notification (DSN) standard; for a read receipt, the e-mail client must have the Message Disposition Notification (MDN) standard. untersttzen. Depending on the e-mail client, this can be set to always, never, or only for specific senders (circles) respond to a confirmation request.

From the point of view of information security, such confirmation messages are generally unproblematic. However, this feature may be undesirable in the context of promotional e-mails sent unspecifically to a large number of e-mail addresses. The sender is signaled by the fact that the respective e-mail address exists and possibly also that the advertising e-mail has been read.

Incoming or outgoing e-mails may be automatically sent to a specified e-mail recipient or distribution list on some e-mail clients, for example as a BCC (Blind Carbon Copy). Thunderbird can provide e-mail addresses for such purposes. Eg under Settings | Accounts | Copies & Folders | BCC can be entered at these e-mail addresses. This feature should only be used if it is ensured that all persons who can access the e-mail address entered there are allowed to read all incoming or outgoing e-mails. Otherwise, there is a risk that confidential information may be passed on unintentionally to third parties.

Some versions of the Windows operating system include the client program Outlook Express. If this program is not needed, eg. because another client program is being used or a webmail service is being used, Outlook Express should be uninstalled.

For all software components installed on the Internet PC, it must be ensured that all available security-relevant patches and updates are promptly recorded.



