#M 5.51 Safety requirements for the communication connection Teleworking computer - Institution
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Teleworker

If teleworking involves the transfer of data between a teleworking computer and the institution's communication computer, official information is usually transmitted via public communication networks. Since neither the institution nor the teleworkers can greatly influence confidentiality, integrity and availability in a public communications network, additional measures are needed.

In general, the data transfer between the teleworking computer and the institution must meet the following security requirements:

* Ensuring the confidentiality of the transmitted data: It must be achieved by a sufficiently secure encryption, that even by listening to the communication between the teleworking computer and the communication computer of the institution no conclusion on the content of the data is possible. In addition to a suitable encryption process, this also includes an adapted key management with periodic key changes.
* Ensuring the Integrity of the Transmitted Data: The transmission protocols used must detect and correct any accidental change in transmitted data. In order to detect deliberate manipulation during data transmission, the data should be signed and / or encrypted.
* Ensuring the availability of data transmission: If time delays in teleworking are difficult to tolerate, a redundant public communications network should be selected as the transmission path, so that a failure of individual links does not disrupt the total loss of communication Means. On a redundant introduction of the network connection to the teleworking computer and the interface of the institution may be waived if necessary.
* Ensuring the authenticity of the data: When transferring data between the teleworking computer and the institution, it must be possible to determine with confidence whether the communication between the right participants takes place so that a masquerade can be ruled out. This means that data with sender Telework calculator actually come from there. Similarly, the origin of institutional data must be undoubtedly attributed to the institution.
* Ensuring the traceability of data transmission: In order to make a communication comprehensible, logging functions can be used, which subsequently determine which data was transmitted to whom and when.
* Ensuring data reception: If it is important for teleworking whether data has been received correctly, acknowledgment mechanisms can be used to determine whether the recipient has received the data correctly.


The strength of the necessary mechanisms depends on the protection requirements of the transmitted data.



