#M 5.162 Planning the line capacities when using terminal servers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In a classic client-server network, the network load between the client and the server is subject to strong point fluctuations, for example, during the transmission of a file. However, if the client application does not require any new information at the moment, no bandwidth is needed.

In a terminal server environment, on the other hand, data will often have to be transmitted over the network even if there are only minor changes to the user's view. All in all, the data stream is easier to control. On the one hand, input and output data can be effectively compressed and limited by bandwidth management, on the other hand, there is only one data stream per session between the terminal and the terminal server for each user. The terminal server may then make connections to file, database or e-mail services, for example. The files themselves do not leave the terminal server at any time, but are only displayed on the client.

The bandwidths required for the different implementations of the terminal server concept vary widely. RDP sessions are estimated at 250 kbit / s on average, Citrix recommends 160 kbit / s for the ICA protocol used there, X11 even takes about 4 to 5 Mbit / s without additional measures. A typical 100 Mbit network is already busy with 15 active X-Window terminals, as 30% additional demand for the underlying TCP / IP protocol must be taken into account. However, compression and buffer mechanisms with proxy systems, such as NX or FreeNX, can effectively reduce the amount of data to an average of 40 kbit / s.

The values ??given here are to be understood as merely rough guideline values ??for the planning. In practice, it is therefore absolutely necessary to analyze the specific application situation. Of course, applications that require rapid updating of large areas of the screen load much more heavily on the network than those that occasionally change individual characters in user dialogs. Graphically complex user interfaces also reduce the number of users that can be operated over a given line capacity, as the behavior of the user himself significantly influences the load profile of the network.

If no detailed empirical data are available for the planned scenario in advance, realistic tests of the specific configuration should therefore be carried out for larger installations so that well-founded statements can be made about the expected data volumes and the necessary network Resources can be taken. This can be done either in field tests with real user groups or by synthetic tests using scripted access simulations. In both cases, reaction times must be defined before the evaluation, which must not be exceeded.

In addition, reserves should be created so that higher requirements in the future can be cushioned, for example by an expansion of the number of users or application updates.

If the demand determination determines that the existing line capacities to the individual terminals are not sufficiently dimensioned, since they compete with other services provided in the network, the use of bandwidth management offers the possibility of eliminating bottlenecks by prioritizing the data traffic , In addition, terminal servers are particularly suitable for providing users with fast storage networks with relatively little effort at the workplace. The connection of downstream services can thus via a second network, eg. For example, powerful technologies such as iSCSI or Fiber Channel can be used directly at the terminal server, thus relieving the network between the terminal and the terminal server.

In particular, in the provision of terminal server services over WAN routes (Wide Area Network), in addition to the bandwidth, the latency of a connection is of considerable importance. Since the screen output of the applications is almost synchronous with the processing on the terminal server, short packet delays to the remote system are crucial for a delay-free work. A higher data volume due to additional protocol layers, eg. encrypted remote access in VPN systems should be taken into account, as well as error correction mechanisms of the line providers, which may additionally adversely affect the signal propagation times.



