#M 5.153 Planning of the network for virtual infrastructures
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Virtualization servers must enable all virtual IT systems to access the infrastructure components they need, such as networks and storage networks, as well as infrastructure services such as DNS or DHCP. Here are the following aspects to consider when planning the network connection of the virtualization server:

* Network connectivity of virtualization server virtualization servers typically requires access to infrastructure services such as DNS and storage networks. Furthermore, they are often administered over the network and certain virtualization functions such as live migration, ie moving a virtual IT system during operation from one virtualization server to another, also use network connections between the virtualization servers. Therefore, the virtualization servers themselves need network interfaces for these purposes. Since the virtual IT systems operated on the virtualization server can also be managed via these interfaces, these interfaces should be particularly protected and operated in a management network. Access to this management network represents the virtual counterpart of the access to the data center or server room and, like the access to server rooms, should be restrictive (see also measure M 1.58 Technical and organizational specifications for server rooms). The management network should therefore be operated separately to ensure that the management functions of the virtualization servers are only accessible from the intended workstations and only for the authorized administrators. In particular, the management network should be separated from the networks of the virtual IT systems. It must also be checked whether a dedicated network should be created for the virtualization function Live Migration. In a live migration, the main memory contents of a virtual IT system may possibly be transmitted over the network in a non-encrypted manner, depending on the protection requirements of the virtual IT systems.
* Network connection of virtual IT systemsFor virtual IT systems (virtual servers, clients and possibly virtual switches), the actions of block B 3.101 General Server and B 3.302 are to be implemented in the same way as for physical ones. With regard to the network connection of virtual IT systems, some special features must be taken into consideration during planning. Virtual IT systems use the physical network interfaces of the virtualization servers to access networks. As a rule, there is no direct, unambiguous assignment of interfaces to virtual IT systems. This means that for some virtualization products, multiple virtual IT systems can share the same physical interface. Since several virtual IT systems are disconnected from the network in the event of a malfunction of this interface, it is recommended that the availability of these multiple network interfaces be increased (accumulation principle). This can z. B. through redundant network interfaces and techniques such as IEEE802.3ad (Link Aggregation Control Protocol - LACP) or other load balancing procedures. It is important to note that the use of such protocols usually requires a custom configuration on the physical switch to which these interfaces are attached. If possible, connect the physical interfaces to different switches.




## Examples 
* Has a separate management network been implemented for managing the virtual infrastructure?
* Has it been checked whether a separate network must be implemented for virtualization functions such as live migration?
* Was a separate network realized for the connection of the productive guest systems?
* Is the availability of the network interfaces used for virtual IT systems sufficiently planned?
* Is the separation of the network segments sufficiently ensured by the virtualization product used, if virtual IT systems with different protection requirements are operated on a virtualization server?
* Have the network connections of a cluster of virtualization servers with sufficient availability been planned?




