#M 5.98 Protection against abuse of paid access numbers
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Paid Internet services are often billed via the telephone bill by the users are redirected via special dial-in programs on costly telephone numbers. These can be, for example, 0900 numbers.

The Webdialer used for it are programs, which furnish a new Internet entrance on the computer. After the download and installation on the PC, the dialer dials into the Internet. An existing Internet connection at this time is usually disconnected beforehand. (However, this only works via dialing, but not over dial or similar techniques.)

The paid content can then be retrieved via this connection. In this case, the dial-in number used by the Webdialer is decisive for the amount of the costs incurred. Both per dial-up and per unit of time may incur high fees.

What was originally intended as a simple and anonymous payment method on the Internet, is unfortunately being increasingly abused lately, to unnoticed to install on Internet PCs by the user such Webdialer. Such Webdialer can z. B. Be installed inconspicuously via Trojan horses or when calling up a website. They then cause massive costs without the users knowing and without adequate performance.

To protect yourself from such problems,

* should educate users on what Webdialers are and how such malicious programs spread,
* For each Internet PC, individual connection certificates should be requested from the telecommunications provider (this is free in Germany).
* consideration should be given to having expensive telephone numbers, such as 0900 numbers in general or certain number blocks, blocked,
* active content, especially ActiveX, should be deactivated as far as possible.


In general, no programs should be installed that supposedly promise free or faster connections to websites with dubious content.



