#M 5.97 Secure communication with Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The data exchange between eDirectory client and server takes place via network connections. Depending on the eDirectory system and the network structure, the communication packages, which may also contain authentication information in addition to directory contents, are transmitted unprotected.

Different network protocols can be used depending on the operating system installed. For example, access to eDirectory can be achieved through Novell's own NDAP, based on the Netware Core Protocol (NCP), as well as the standardized protocol LDAP. The data is transported for NDAP over IP or IPX networks and for LDAP exclusively over IP networks.

User authentication when accessing via NDAP follows a proprietary procedure that does not transport authentication data directly over the network. However, client-server communication is not essentially encrypted when using NDAP, it is the responsibility of the NDAP client to ensure encryption of the communication, so access to eDirectory should be via this protocol only possible within the intranet.

If an eDirectory server is to be accessed from outside via NDAP, an appropriate safeguarding of the communication link between client and server must be realized, which sufficiently protects the confidentiality of the transmitted data. This can z. B. by using a Virtual Private Network (VPN).

Access to eDirectory via LDAP offers special encryption options (use of SSL) but also special risks (setting up anonymous access). In response to these security issues, provision M 4.158 for setting up LDAP access to Novell eDirectory is received.

In addition, administrators can access the system remotely. An example of this is Novell's own iMonitor tool, which can be used to access system monitor data via a browser (see M 4.160 Monitoring Novell eDirectory).

Since the data available in the iMonitor provide significant insights into the structure and configuration of an eDirectory installation, this indirect access to the eDirectory must also be ensured. It should therefore only be possible for authorized users to access the iMonitor via HTTP. The transmission should also be protected by TLS / SSL (see M 5.66 Client-side use of SSL / TLS).

For example, if an eDirectory server is for LDAP access from outside the screened subnet of a firewall system, HTTP access to that server should not be possible.



