#M 5.57 Secure configuration of groupware / mail clients
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

The users' groupware programs must be preconfigured by the administrator so that maximum security can be achieved without further user intervention. Users must be made aware that they can not change the configuration themselves.

When configuring groupware clients, the following points should be considered:

* The reply address must be the official e-mail address of the user. This avoids forwarding internal e-mail addresses to the outside in this way.
* In order to keep the network load low, the mail client should not over-check the mail server for new messages. An automatic retrieval every 30 minutes is recommended as the default value and is usually sufficient. If users expect an urgent message, they should manually prompt the e-mail program to look in their mailbox.
* If the messages perPOP3 (Post Office Protocol version 3) are picked up by the mail server, then they should also be deleted there. In this way, multiple retrieval of the same messages can be prevented and memory problems at the mail server can be avoided. If the messages are stored on the mail server and accessed via IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol), a size limit should be set for the server-side mailbox. In this case, the users must regularly delete mails from the server or move them to local mailboxes. When the upper limit for the size of the mailbox is reached, users should be alerted in a suitable manner, for example with a corresponding e-mail. The message may be as follows: Your mailbox has exceeded one or more of the administrator-defined size limits. The current mailbox size is xxx MB. Maximum mailbox size: You will be notified if the mailbox size exceeds yyy MB. You may not be able to send and receive new messages until you reduce the size of the mailbox. To free up space, delete or move objects to local folders.




## Examples 
* E-mail client that no further configuration is required by the user?
* Are users warned that they can not change the configuration themselves?
* Is the saving of passwords in the communication software prevented or prohibited?
* Is there a size limit for the server-side mailbox?
* Are file attachments saved to disk before they are executed?
* Are files checked with a virus protection program before starting file attachments?




