#M 5.122 Secure connection of laptops to local networks
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

As mobile IT devices, laptops have a greater risk potential than stationary IT systems, which are operated exclusively in a controlled environment. Therefore, it is important to determine what regulations should be observed when connecting laptops to LANs to avoid compromising the secure operation of the LAN and other associated IT systems, eg. through malware.

If a laptop is to be reconnected to the company or network after external use, it must first be ensured by a thorough check with current virus signatures that this laptop is not infected.

If laptops are connected directly to the Internet for mobile use, it is essential to protect them against attacks from the network by means of a restrictively configured personal firewall. The virus protection alone is not enough to ward off all expected attacks. Likewise, it is absolutely necessary to keep the software of the laptop up to date and to install necessary security patches in a timely manner. It makes sense to check if personal firewall, other security programs and security patches on the laptop are up to date before accessing the production network. It is recommended that these tests be carried out automatically using appropriate tools so that access to the internal network can be rejected in the event of a security problem.

The Internet application programs installed on the laptop, especially the browser and e-mail client, should be operated with secure settings (see M 5.45 Secure use of browsers and M .5.57 Secure configuration of groupware / mail clients). The change of the preset options by the user should be prevented administratively. In addition, tools could be used that restrict the functionality of the browser so that it runs in a sandbox-like environment.



## Examples 
* Prohibition of direct Internet access: Of course, this solution has the advantage that it is the easiest to implement. However, it is also the most restrictive option and will therefore not be easy to enforce.
* Using different user IDs: At the operating system level, two different user IDs should be used in this case, one for general business use and the other for Internet access. Here, the Internet ID should have only minimum rights.
* Use of different partitions / operating system installations: This solution uses different partitions, which are separated as much as possible, for example by different operating and file systems. The stronger the separation, the higher are the strains to prevent the degradation of the productive environment by malware from the Internet or similar.
* Virtual machines: Here, the direct use of the Internet takes place exclusively via an operating system that is operated in a virtual machine (eg User Mode Linux, UML). The virtual machine separates the browser used from the actual host operating system more than when using it without a virtual machine. However, this variant has the residual risk that malicious programs -. B. generated with JavaScript - can be copied back and forth between the host operating system and the virtual operating system using copy and paste. The host operating system could then be in an unsafe state at the next VPN dial-up.
* Using Boot CDs: This is an internet-enabled operating environment for the Internet use of a write-protected medium such as a CD-ROM, whereby the usability is limited by the fact that necessary IP information may be entered by hand will have to. For example, Knoppix can be used, a completely CD-ready compilation of GNU / Linux software (see www.knoppix.org).
* Internet access only via VPN (via intranet via the intrinsic security gateway to the intranet). This has the advantage that dangerous contents are sorted out.




