#M 6.156 Carrying out your own data backups
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, specialist responsible, IT security officer

If an institution finds in the course of the planning measures for the use of Cloud Services or at a later time that special circumstances make its own data backups necessary, some important aspects must be considered. The identified need for own data backups must be justified and documented.

In principle, there are two different ways to perform additional data backups for an institution. On the one hand, the creation of the data backup can be carried out by the institution itself, and on the other hand, this can be implemented by using an additional service (backup as a service). In this case, an external service provider assumes this task.

In particular, in the case of the commissioning of an external service provider, the requirements of the institution to the backup service should be elaborated in detail and carefully documented. They have to be reconciled with the particular circumstances that have created the need for your own data backup. The backup service is then either another cloud service or an outsourcing project, for which the security measures have to be implemented from the respective building blocks.

In principle, it is recommended to contractually agree the right to backup your data with the chosen cloud service provider. In this case, the measure for contract drafting (see measure M 2.541 Contract drafting with the cloud service provider) is to complement this aspect.



