#M 6.108 Data backup for domain controllers
Responsible for initiation: Specialist, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Since domain controllers usually provide central authentication and authorization tasks for accessing critical resources in the network, a failure immediately leads to severe network degradation. For this reason, the Dom nen controller must be set as the central IT component for data backup. This should be documented either in the institution's data protection concept or in a stand-alone data protection policy. The basic procedure is described in block B 1.4 Data backup concept. In addition, domain-specific controller-specific features should be taken into account when developing the data protection policy for Active Directory. This set of rules should take into account the following aspects:

* On domain controllers, data backups must be carried out regularly and comprehensibly.
* Backups should not use enterprise-wide general user accounts.
* Backup systems should only be deployed in locations where the security of hardware and media is assured.
* It is necessary to periodically test whether the domain controllers can be recovered using the backup media.
* Separate backup media must be destroyed.


In contrast to conventional server backups, the following points should be additionally considered for domain controllers.

Recovery of a failed domain controller is rarely done using only backup media. This has resulted in upgrading a member server to the domain controller and then replicating the Active Directory data from another domain controller. However, this method can only be used if the use of multiple domain controllers after the failure of one or more systems still has at least one valid Active Directory replica.

If there is only one domain controller or if there is no ActiveDirectory replica available after the domain controller has failed, the recovery must be done via the backup media. It should be noted that under certain circumstances problems such as faulty backup media, incomplete recovery procedures or lack of process know-how can occur among the responsible persons. To address these issues, make sure that administrators are familiar with the forest recovery procedures.



## Examples 
* There is no backup of Dom nen controllers in the branches.
* Offsite data backup uses remote backup systems (offline media) to secure data centers.
* Data backup in the branches takes place by means of local backups on data media (online media.




