#M 6.126 Introduction to computer forensics
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, auditor

A computer or digital forensic investigation is about detecting and elucidating criminal or otherwise unlawful or socially harmful acts by collecting and analyzing digital traces. The objectives of such an investigation after a system crash or other security incident are usually

* Identify the method or vulnerability that could have caused the system to break down
* determine the damage after a system crash,
* to identify the attacker and
* to secure the evidence for further legal actions.


For this, the data relevant for the analysis of the incident must be collected by the affected IT systems. It must be ensured that as much information as possible can be collected from a compromised system without changing the current status or status of this system. For an effective investigation, it makes sense to prepare in advance a guideline for a determination process that describes all the steps to be performed.

According to the so-called Secure Analysis Present (S-A-P) model, an investigation process can be divided into three major phases. During the secure phase, all data is carefully recorded. It is important to ensure that the examination area is carefully protected. At this time it is often not clear if the door is inside. If the members of the team of experts want to prevent possible manipulation, appropriate precautions must be taken to prevent interior doors from blurring their tracks. In this phase, the foundation stone is laid by suitable methods that the information collected in a possibly later legal assessment does not lose its evidential value. Even if it is often not clear at this very early stage of the investigation whether a legal ruling is being sought, the evidence should nevertheless be established by the court. For this reason, all activities must be carefully documented and logged. The collected data must also be protected early against accidental or even intentional manipulation. It is therefore necessary to make extensive use of corresponding hash methods and the four-eye principle.

During the analysis phase, the traces are carefully analyzed and the results assessed objectively. The conclusions must be critically scrutinized in order to identify gaps in the line of argument independently and reliably.

While the secure and analysis phases in terms of level of detail and method are often independent of the specific issue of the security incident, the activities in the present phase are dependent on who in what form convinced of the results of the investigation must become.

Ultimately, the result must convince people who were not present during the entire investigation and perhaps do not have the technical expertise to understand all the details. This means that all findings must be conclusively and comprehensibly documented for technical laypeople and then presented in a convincingly target-group-oriented manner. The results of a forensic investigation typically have to be presented to decision-makers within their own institution, but also to external decision-makers and law enforcement authorities.

Irrespective of the specific question and the IT system to be examined (server, workstation, PDA, router, notebook, etc.), it is possible to identify some sensitive data types that are of interest for the determination:

* Comprehensive data: information that could be lost during an orderly shutdown or shutdown of the IT system (contents of cache and main memory, status of network connections, running processes, logged in users, etc.)
* Fragile data: Information that is stored on the hard disk of the IT system, but whose condition may change as a result of improper access.
* Temporarily accessible data: Information that is on the hard disk but accessible only at certain times, such as: For example, during the lifetime of an application or use of a particular application functionality.


Knowing the half-life of this data is important because it determines the order of data collection in the secure phase.

This results in two basic methods of computer forensics investigation, Live Response and Post Mortem Analysis:

The analysis of an active, non-disconnected system provides the opportunity to collect most of the relevant volatile data and is called Live Response. This approach is useful if valuable volatile data could be lost or the system can not be switched off for availability or dependency reasons. A live response analysis is useful even when there is a risk that the disk will become inaccessible when the system is turned off. One of the main advantages of a live response analysis is that often it is only through this analytical approach that it is possible to find out whether the system has actually been attacked and whether and how a possibly defective code is active. Often you only have a chance at the runtime of a system to detect incidents that indicate a rootkit or other malicious software. The advantage is that the process memory, including the events currently taking place on the system, can be saved in a structured manner.

However, one of the main problems with the live response analysis is that the order of backup of the malicious data can not always be determined beyond doubt, since any action on the suspect system also alters the suspect system itself. For example, when backing up the list of processes currently running on the suspicious IT system, the commands used for the backup process also appear. Incorrect use of tools also runs the risk of destroying additional data or obscuring relevant information through rootkits installed on the system.

The second research approach is often called post mortem analysis, as it deals with the evaluation of data carriers or disk copies of already switched off systems. Here, the analysis is performed on a forensic copy of the data carrier of a compromised system. A forensic copy is a bit-wise 1: 1 copy that exists as an image file. An examination of the original data carrier without further security mechanisms should be avoided as there is a risk of the destruction of the tracks.

A post mortem analysis is carried out if the volatile memory is not relevant for the incident to be clarified or if this incident has been present for a very long time. The benefits of post mortem analysis on a forensic volume copy are that volatile data can not be accidentally destroyed and the entire analysis process or tool set is predictable, as the information is not lost can. However, there are also the disadvantages here: only a few statements about the duration can be made and important traces can remain hidden.

If the pertinent data are of interest for the understanding and the explanation of the security incident, the cumbersome data should be carefully secured before the suspicious system is switched off. If this has been done carefully and expertly, the system can be removed from the mains. A normal system shutdown should be avoided as far as possible, as it destroys many fragile data irretrievably.

In order to ensure that all employees of the expert team can carry out the necessary analyzes comprehensibly and prudently for the treatment of safety incidents, the various examination steps should be described in a guideline. Among other things, this guideline should include how to secure the data of a suspicious system, analysis plans for typical security incidents and the evaluation methodology. It should also provide guidance on the applicable legal basis.

The methods of forensic examinations should be examined regularly for optimization possibilities.



