#M 6.88 Create an emergency plan for the web server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The partial or complete failure of a web server has grave consequences in many cases. For example, the web server can be an essential component of in-house workflows or of an e-commerce or e-government system.

A failure of the web server then also results in the failure of the entire system. If the web server hosts a public web site, a failure or malfunction will also become public knowledge quickly.

In the context of emergency preparedness, a concept should therefore be drafted on how the consequences of a failure can be minimized and what activities should be carried out in the event of a failure.

The following aspects must be considered:

* The emergency planning for the web server must be integrated into the existing emergency plan (see module B 1.3 Emergency Management). Above all, it must be determined whether appropriate emergency plans are available for all other systems and network connections that are required to operate the web server.


* A system failure can also lead to data loss. For this reason, a data backup concept should be created for the web server that should be integrated into the existing data protection concept (see also module B 1.4 Data backup concept). This should include not only the web server itself, but also the overall system within which the web server is deployed. This may include databases, application servers, or proxy load-sharing installations.
* If there are special requirements for the availability of the web server, then necessary components should be designed redundantly. For example, in some applications, the web server itself can be redundantly designed by using a shared, external storage system.
* To operate the web server on the Internet, a functioning Internet connection is required. In some configurations, a properly functioning DNS server is also needed. A failure of these components must therefore also be considered.
* If SSL is used on the web server, the private key of the SSL certificate must also be accessible when the system restarts. Since this should be protected by a password, it must be securely stored so that it is available for the restart (see also M 2.22 Storing the password).
* The system configuration must be documented. Important tasks must be described so that the entire system can be restored in an emergency even without prior knowledge of this system configuration.
* A recovery plan must be created which ensures the controlled startup of the system.




