#M 6.61 Escalation strategy for security incidents
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

After the responsibilities for security incidents have been resolved (see M 6.59 Determination of Responsibilities for Security Precautions) and the rules of conduct and reporting procedures have been communicated to all concerned (see M 6.60 Definition of Reporting Routes for Security Incidents) Next, how to deal with received messages continues. For that, an escalation strategy has to be formulated. The escalation strategy should be coordinated between those responsible for incident and incident management and information security management. This is necessary in order to be able to effectively and efficiently use existing methods and procedures (see M 6.124 Defining the interfaces of the incident handling for troubleshooting).

The person who has received a message about a security incident must first of all investigate and assess it (see also M 6.63 Investigation and evaluation of a security incident). If it is indeed a security incident, further action must be taken. The following questions arise:

* Who should be informed in case of an escalation, ie the extension of the action chain?
* In which cases should an immediate escalation occur?
* Under what circumstances should an escalation otherwise be carried out?
* When will this escalation occur (immediately, the next day, the next business day)?
* Which media will the message be shared with?


The answers to these questions must be recorded and announced in an escalation strategy.

Escalation strategies, contact persons and routes must be defined in advance so that the security breaches can be processed by the responsible persons without any loss of time after detection and registration. Synchronization with the escalation procedures of the responsible persons for incident and incident management as well as the emergency management is recommended (see also M 6.124 Definition of the interfaces of the incident handling for troubleshooting).

A distinction can be made between two basic types of escalation: professional and hierarchical escalation.

The technical escalation in the event of trouble shooting (Incident Management) is initiated, if for the initial solution in the first level support no suitable solution, eg. in the form of a checklist (matching scenario), or the matching scenario in the escalation path, for example, envisages the inclusion of further necessary competence providers. Safety management should be regularly included under the same conditions. In particular, in the case of suspected security incidents, for which there is no matching scenario in first-level support, escalation should immediately take place in the direction of security management. First level support should therefore be based on the current escalation strategy.

The hierarchical escalation should be initiated when

* In addition to the above-mentioned requirements, it is foreseeable that agreed recovery times can not be met, or else
* In the course of processing, decisions must be taken that are not in the competence of the processor, eg For example, where security-critical business processes are affected, existential threats can be presumed, criminal acts are suspected, consequential conflicts or emergencies are foreseeable, etc.


It is also necessary that when planning the escalation strategy, the expected reactions and activities of the escalation instance are clearly defined and the escalation not only receives an informative character. All escalations carried out are comprehensible to document.

The escalation strategy can be created in three steps:



## Examples 
* The expected level of damage exceeds the area of ??responsibility of the body that accepted the notification.
* The costs and resources for claim settlement   in terms of their area of ??expertise.
* The complexity of the security incident exceeds its area of ??competence or competence.




