#M 6.106 Creation of an emergency plan for the failure of a directory service
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The partial or complete failure of a directory service usually has a serious impact on the work options of users. For example, if a directory service server fails, server-based actions can no longer be performed. In the context of emergency preparedness, therefore, a concept should be drafted on how the consequences of a failure of directory service components can be minimized and what activities should be carried out in the event of a failure.

The following aspects must be considered:

* The emergency planning for the directory service system must be integrated into the existing emergency plan (see module B 1.3 Emergency Management).
* A system failure can also lead to data loss. Therefore, a concept for the backup of the directory database is to be created, which can be integrated into the previous backup concept or replace it. Further information can be found in block B 1.4 Data backup concept as well as in M 6.107 Creating backups for directory services.
* If replicas of important information and files are created on several servers, these replicas can be accessed if individual directory service servers fail. Through the replication mechanisms of directory services, it is possible to provide users with a relatively close replica of data in each case, in order to achieve good access times and high server availability (see M 2.409 Planning of the Server) Partitioning and replication in the directory service).
* A directory service provides the ability to partition (partition) the directory database across multiple directory service servers so that each server holds only a portion of the data. If a directory service server fails, only the partition of the directory saved there is affected (see M 2.409 Partitioning and replication planning in the directory service). When creating a contingency plan, care must be taken to consider all partitions of a directory service installation.
* The entire system configuration of the directory service components must be documented. All system restoration tasks must be described in such a way that, in an emergency, they can be performed by personnel who have no detailed knowledge of the previously existing system configuration.
* Emergency planning must ensure that suitably trained personnel are available in the event of an emergency.
* A recovery plan must be created which ensures a regular restart of the directory service system.
* Emergency Planning must consider and be prepared for the peculiarities of major directory service servers.


In the context of emergency preparedness, different scenarios should be considered in which the directory service system or parts of it are compromised. For these scenarios, it should be described in the emergency plan as precisely as possible how each is to react and which actions are to be carried out. The reactions should be practiced regularly.

The timely contingency planning with prescribed instructions, which can also be carried out by persons who are not familiar with the system administration, can mitigate the effects in the event of damage. It should be noted that the relevant documents for the emergency situation contain important and valuable information, so that they must be stored in a protected manner. Nevertheless, the authorized persons must be able to access it in an emergency.

Specifically, at least the following emergency situations should be considered:



## Examples 
* Has a needs-based contingency planning for directory services been carried out?
* Are there any emergency plans for the failure of important directory service systems?
* Have all emergency procedures been documented for directory service components?




