#M 6.142 Use of redundant terminal servers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Since the failure of a terminal server environment can usually affect a larger number of users, measures must be taken to reduce the damage in the event of a failure.

In addition, terminal servers can only be expanded in a limited way, so that any system loads that may occur have to be distributed among several servers. Further details can be found in M 2.465 Analysis of the required system resources of terminal servers.

With terminal server connections, the availability requirements can be guaranteed in both cases. For this purpose, the user sessions must be suitably distributed to the various terminal servers. It should be taken into account to what extent the terminal servers to which Terminal Server sessions are assigned are reachable and busy.

In practice, two methods are usually used in this context, network load balancers (load balancers) and native mechanisms of the respective terminal server solution.

In addition to the net load, internal load balancing solutions can usually also check for influences such as processor or memory usage. For example, it is possible to avoid terminal servers with little input and output, but with compute-intensive processes, being allocated too many users. In terminal server environments with high availability requirements, load-balancing mechanisms should be used that take these factors into account.

If automatic session distribution solutions are used, then a session directory should be used. Only then is it possible for a separate connection to a particular terminal server to be re-established later and the user to be able to continue his session.

The session directories are stored in databases on Citrix Presentation Server and Windows Terminal Server and should be installed on dedicated systems. The session directory is called the Terminal Server of Microsoft Session Directory. For Citrix, the session information is stored in the so-called IMA (Independent Management Architecture) datastore and partly in the ZDC (Zone Data Collector).

Information within these databases is critical to the security of the terminal server farm. They should be adequately protected against failure, manipulation and misuse (see also B 5.7 Databases). In the basic installation, both the Session Directory and the IMA Datastore have a status password that needs to be changed. In particular, if applications are provided on the terminal servers that potentially enable direct database access or are subject to high protection requirements, the database systems must be operated in a separate network segment. In this case, the connections from the terminal server farm to the administrative services should be controlled by firewalls.



