#M 6.109 Emergency plan for the failure of a VPN
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Dependent on the availability requirements, the failure of a VPN can have serious consequences. In order to avoid damage or to reduce the incurred damage, the ascertained availability requirements must already be taken into account when defining the VPN system architecture. A VPN emergency concept serves as a guide for acute damage (eg physical disruption, unauthorized access) and should help the institution to keep an overview of the activities to be taken in the event of an emergency.

The emergency preparedness for VPNs must be integrated into the existing emergency management (see also module B 1.3 Emergency Management). For this purpose, procedures and definitions of initial measures for the rapid transition into operative operation are to be defined.

Depending on the prioritization of the locations, business processes or organizational units, individual VPN emergency concepts are to be created that reflect the respective specific circumstances. When creating an emergency concept for a VPN, the following points must be observed:

* Which faults, damages and consequential damages result concretely in case of failure of a VPN connection?
* Which VPN connections need to be highly available?
* How fast can the failure of a VPN be determined?
* Can errors in the telecommunication networks used for the connection be quickly recognized as such? Are they communicated to the responsible administrator (for example, connection problems, problems with the transmission of numbers, problems with switching closed user groups)?
* How fast can VPN connections be restored in the event of various failure scenarios (replacement of devices, booting of the system)?
* In the case of failure of which components, the VPN must be switched off, although technically VPN connections can still be set up (eg in the event of a failure of the logging, the communication encryption or the authentication server)?
* Is there enough qualified personnel available for the administration of the VPN in Not Ellen?


For individual damage scenarios, appropriate procedures should be developed in the form of emergency documentation. This should include all data necessary for the elimination of an emergency and be presented in such a way that the substitute staff can also work with it. The emergency documentation should also contain information about alternative routes, eg. alternative telecommunications providers or alternative transmission media.



## Examples 
* Clustering (multiple networked components to increase availability),
* Hot Standby (provision of initialized replacement devices) or Cold Standby (provision of powered-off replacement devices).




