#M 6.53 Redundant design of the network components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Procurement

High demands are placed on the availability of the central network components, since in general many users are dependent on a local network functioning smoothly. In order to be able to resume operation as quickly as possible in the event of a fault, redundancy must be provided in the respective area, depending on the respective availability requirements, which prevents a partial or total failure of the relevant network components with acceptable effort.

There are two different ways to achieve redundancy:

* The network components can be stored redundantly in the warehouse so that they can be exchanged at short notice in the event of an emergency. If this is not taken into account, tedious procurement procedures are often necessary before the malfunction can be remedied. Alternatively, maintenance or supply contracts are to be concluded with the corresponding manufacturers, which guarantee a quick replacement of defective components. Afterwards, the saved configuration data can be restored to minimize the downtime of the affected network segments (see M 6.52 Regular backup of the configuration data of active network components).
* It also makes sense to schedule a redundant design of the network components already when designing a network. Thus, all central switches and, depending on the protocols used, all routers should at least be integrated into the network in order to keep the connection between the servers and the connection between the individual network components redundant. Correct functioning is ensured by a suitable logical network configuration.Figure 1: Redundant connections of the network components


If, depending on the availability requirements, a redundancy in the terminal equipment area is also necessary, all terminals must additionally be equipped with two network adapters.

In this case, it is important to check whether this technology is supported by the active network components and operating systems used.

Furthermore, the power supply of active network components is a frequent cause of malfunction because they rely on a stable power supply. Many components can therefore be equipped with redundant power supplies or are already equipped with them. In this way, the reliability of individual network components can be increased without having to use two network components. Such a measure, however, does not increase the reliability of the actual functionality of the network components.

In any case, it must be determined by means of a careful analysis, which concrete availability requirements are met. Within the framework of a detailed planning of the system and network architecture, a suitable redundancy concept must be developed which meets these requirements. In this context, the measure M 6.18 Redundant routing must also be observed.



