#M 6.145 Emergency preparedness for telecommunications systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

EveryIT operation experiences faults that can range from sporadic component malfunction to the clear demarcation of a device. The basis for safe operation is the preparation for disruption situations. This includes failures or impairments of hardware and software due to defects or compromises and user mistreatment.

In order to be able to respond effectively and quickly in such situations, diagnosis and troubleshooting must be planned and prepared in advance. It also makes sense to name persons responsible and contact persons. Immediate measures and further instructions should be prepared for typical and already occurring damage situations. A typical emergency of this kind may be to have a separate PSTN port with a direct-attach phone ready to place emergency calls. Alternatively or additionally, mobile phones could be kept as a replacement.

By means of the so-called disaster switching, a measure to be implemented beforehand, the existing incoming and outgoing telephone lines can be assigned to predetermined connections. This ensures that in case of a catastrophe important institutions remain able to act.

For certain elements of the PBX, it may be useful to identify and maintain replacement equipment to bridge an unexpectedly long wait for equivalent replacement hardware. The replacement devices can restore their functionality immediately if any configuration required is set. To do this, the PBX configuration data (see M 6.26 Regular backup of the PBX configuration data) must have been saved.

Compared to the normal operating state, such an alternative solution often has disadvantages with regard to its performance or redundancy. A typical example of an alternative solution is a (resource-weak) test system. All alternative solutions often have in common that with their help not the normal operating state is reached, but can only be bridged for a certain time. An emergency plan for the PBX must therefore specify which alternative solutions should be used and which steps are necessary for their commissioning. Determining the appropriate restart sequence of the components of the PBX helps to select the essential components and basic functions to be bridged. The more fundamental the functionality of a subsystem for working with the PBX is, the earlier such a subsystem should be restored or at least be replaceable by a functionally equivalent alternative solution.

It has been shown in practice that overall IT solutions are often too complex to pre-play all possible failure scenarios and to make suitable restart definitions. Therefore, a case by case determination of priority classes is recommended. For all IT systems, first priority classes are defined, which can be derived from the following criteria:

* technical dependencies of such services among themselves
* Significance for the business processes of the institution
* Scope of the user group benefiting from its availability


All determinations leading to the determination of the order of recovery must be prepared in advance in the context of emergency preparedness (for example, in the IT emergency manual). Especially in the case of complex systems, the depiction of links and dependencies, which are individual to the institution, is decisive for the assessment of failures and fast and secure intervention.

Unless all relevant provisions for the emergency treatment of the PBX come from an overall emergency manual, these should be recorded in an emergency plan. This lists all prepared and prepared immediate measures, alternative solutions, emergency modes and steps to initiate them, as well as typical steps on the way to restoring normal operation. Also included are necessary contact information for emergencies, definitions regarding responsibilities for the initiation / implementation of measures and special reporting obligations in emergency cases.

The safe mastery of necessary emergency measures is of great importance. Accordingly, typical measures should be taken regularly. Unless this is done regularly in the day-to-day routine of recurring activities, training must take place in the form of emergency exercises.



