#M 6.135 Regular backup of important system components of a Samba server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Responsible for data protection

The failure of a Samba server can have serious consequences for the business processes of a company or a company. Unintentional changes, such as misconfiguration or hardware failure, may require recovery of critical system components. Important system components include not only the actual system files (for example, the smbd D mon of the Samba package), but also configuration data (for example, in smb.conf), status information (for example, in the Trivial Database (TDB) files ) and log data (for example, the smbd D mons log file). The backup of the data must be carried out as part of the specifications of a data protection concept (see block B 1.4 Data backup concept).

When restoring configuration data, status information, and system files, care should be taken to ensure that they are compatible. For example, restoring the configuration of a Samba server to use configuration data that was originally in use with a newer version of the Samba package may cause problems. The older version of Samba may not be able to evaluate some parameters in the configuration, as they were added in a later version of Samba. This can lead to unwanted (side) effects or prevent the operation of Samba completely. It should also be ensured before restoring that the basic operating system has been set up identically (see also M 4.331 Secure configuration of the operating system for a Samba server).

Depending on the server role and availability requirements, the recovery and recovery time should be periodically tested and improved as part of a disaster recovery plan for the server.

In order to be able to restore the state of a Samba server, the following data / information should be regularly backed up:

* Smb.conf file (configuration data)
* Important TDB files (configuration data and status information)
* Account information (status information)
* Directory for log files (log data)


The following sections provide measures to back up the data / information.



## Examples 
* As a member of a domain, Samba deposits the password of the computer account in the secrets.tdb file. A computer account is a normal user account in the domain user database that exists for each member computer. Based on the password of this computer account, domain members and domain controllers authenticate each other. If the computer account password is lost, Samba must re-join the domain.
* In its primary domain controller (PDC) function, Samba stores the domain security identifier (SID) in secrets.tdb. The loss of the SID may mean that all clients must join the domain again and all user profiles must be adapted to the new domain.
* Other TDB files usually store only temporary information, the loss of which has no consequences.




