#M 6.162 Reaction to the practical weakness of a crypto-method
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, IT Leader, Organization Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In the case of a weak cryptographic process, it must be analyzed as quickly as possible how the process can be replaced by a suitable alternative in order to ensure the information security of the institution.

If the broken or vulnerable crypto procedure is disabled, two cases have to be distinguished:

* If several encryption algorithms are available in an IT system and one of them proves to be insecure then it must be ensured that the broken algorithm is no longer used.
* If there is currently no alternative algorithm, appropriate measures should be implemented, depending on the need for protection. For example, it should be considered to disconnect the affected parts of the IT system or separate them from the network.


The risk arising from the broken cryptographic process should be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Often, attacks on cryptographic methods are rather theoretical and in practice only with extremely high effort feasible. When the risk is reassessed, an appropriate migration strategy should be designed.

A compromised cryptographic technique may continue to be used after the risk assessment for a limited period of time if immediate changeover to an alternative method is not possible at a reasonable cost. In no case may a weak procedure continue to be used permanently.

The same applies if security holes become known in the implementation of crypto-methods. Here, the required patches must be recorded as soon as possible and / or remedial measures taken.



