#M 6.90 Data backup and archiving for groupware and e-mail
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

For a groupware system, data backups must be carried out regularly. One of the applications for which orderly data backup is particularly important is e-mail. The importance of e-mail for internal and external communication is constantly increasing, so it is important that the messages sent or received are also available in the longer term. In addition, there are also legal requirements that require longer-term revision-proof archiving of business-relevant e-mails.

Groupware systems consist of many components which, depending on the configuration, are to be included in data backups. Therefore, a data protection concept for groupware should be created, which should be integrated into the existing data protection concept of the institution (see also B 1.4 Data backup concept). On the server side, the essential information and data of groupware systems are stored in databases. For this, the safety recommendations for the data backups of general databases must be implemented (see M 6.49 Data backup of a database).

While the backup of the groupware servers is generally well-regulated, there are often major regulatory issues with the issue of backup and archiving of e-mails.

Typically, emails are initially moved from a centralized groupware or email server to user PCs or user directories where they are edited and forwarded. While data on servers is generally backed up regularly, e-mails stored on clients are frequently not secured or insufficiently backed up. There should also be a regular course of action for this.

For receiving e-mails, user or task-related e-mail addresses can be set up. However, many e-mails directed to a user-related e-mail address should be accessible to a number of employees, such as: B.in project groups. Therefore, it is important to store them in servers in corresponding project directories. When saving such emails as official documents, it is often necessary to take into account minimum or maximum retention periods (see block B 1.12 Archiving).

It should be regulated in principle how, when and where both sent and received emails are archived, for example, whether centrally or remotely by the users.

When archiving encrypted e-mail, a few points must be taken into account (see also M6.56 Data backup when using cryptographic methods):

* E-mails that are to be stored for a considerable amount of time can be unreadable if the cryptographic keys used no longer exist.
* The archiving and replaying of encrypted e-mails must be carefully planned. One option is, for example, to save the messages in plain text. Confidentiality must be ensured in other ways. Encrypted storage must also secure access information so that it is available for data recovery.




