#M 6.137 Fiduciary Deposit (Escrow)
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, Emergency Representative

Responsible for implementation: Responsible for the individual applications

The more business-critical a process is, the more important it is to hedge it against a default. When supplying many products that support business processes (software, machines, machines, etc.), the purchaser does not receive all the components necessary to maintain the product. Maintenance in this case is frequently ensured by the supplier. If the manufacturer or supplier fails, the product may not be maintainable. It should be examined whether this risk can be mitigated by an escrow of the missing ingredients.

Escrow is the fiduciary deposit of materials not included in the delivery, which are necessary for the maintenance and care of a product, at a third party (escrow agency). These materials may be software (executable or source code), manuals, design plans, configuration states, acceptance dates, keys, passwords, or other components.

Depending on the type of product, companies or authorities can use this instrument to hedge against the following risks, for example:

* Elimination of the services of a contractor with regard to completion, maintenance or further development of the product
* Failure of suppliers of components and assemblies
* Especially in the case of software: loss of source and / or object codes for major IT users
* Lack of means to prove when, what version was available, for example, in terms of copyright, liability or bankruptcy


functionality

The user of a product secures with Escrow the continuous continuation of one or more business-critical processes. For this he receives the right to access the deposited material under defined conditions and to use this for the care of the product, eg. if the supplier does not provide the services specified in the contract to the user. On the other hand, the supplier protects his competitive advantages and his company secrets as long as he fulfills his obligations. The escrow agency checks and keeps the material for both parties.

User and supplier conclude a contract with the escrow agency, which defines at least the following aspects:

* Securing the rights and conditions for the release of the deposited material
* Verification of the material
* Proper storage of the material and adequate protection
* Updating the material


The terms of the deposit and in particular the duties of the escrow agency with regard to verification and publication must be described in detail in the escrow contract. The individual design of this contract depends both on the assessment of the risks against which the depositor wishes to hedge and on the legal sphere.

The following notes should be observed when formulating and concluding the escrow contract:

* Discrepancies between the license agreement and the escrow contract must be avoided.
* It is helpful to conclude the user contract and the escrow contract in parallel. A temporal shift could entail disadvantages for the user.
* Depending on the jurisdiction, an escrow contract can be jeopardized if it is closed too late, eg. B. shortly before the insolvency of the supplier.
* The publication of the material should be clearly defined. The escrow contract should include a detailed procedure on how to initiate and execute the release.
* The escrow agency must be trustworthy for both sides and must provide safe and appropriate storage for the material to be deposited.
* The technical aspects of the deposit must be regulated. The escrow agency should have the necessary technical expertise to test the reusability of the material and to provide follow-up to updates.
* The usability of the material after the release is already suitable for the delivery. The test depth depends on the assessment of the risks and the technology used. Examples of tests are compiling a software from the stored source code or playing through a mounting manual.
* By specifying suitable update cycles, the material must be kept up to date. Which cycles are required depends primarily on the assessment of the risks and the production processes of the user.




