#M 6.115 Integration of employees in the emergency management process
Responsible for Initiation: Emergency Representative

Responsible for implementation: Emergency Representative, Human Resources, Supervisors

Emergency management affects all employees. Each individual must avoid harm by acting responsibly. Training and awareness-raising activities are therefore required to integrate employees into the emergency management process, a task that must accompany the entire emergency management process.

The company or the authority should therefore set up a training and awareness-raising program process to develop an emergency management training and awareness concept, organize training measures, and verify their effectiveness and sustainability , The concept should build on the existing skills that employees already have in their area of ??emergency management. Due to the close integration of emergency management and security management, cooperation in training and awareness-raising measures makes sense.

Employees must be taught the goals and need for emergency management. They must know and understand the contents of the emergency management guideline as well as the goals and tasks of emergency management. Each employee should be instructed in their role in emergency management so that they orient their actions to the principles of emergency management. Awareness of the topic of emergency management and the necessary emergency measures must be established, maintained and continuously increased by regular awareness-raising measures for all employees.

This also means that employees are involved early in the planning of emergency measures or the organization of organizational regulations. Aims of the sensitization measures must be to teach the coworkers their role in the emergency management and how they can contribute by their behavior to the goals of the emergency management.

Employees who have taken on a role in emergency preparedness or emergency management are to be trained regularly. Ensure that they have the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to fulfill their current and future emergency management responsibilities.

Therefore, a training program has to be developed that

* the existing knowledge of the employees in the emergency management analyzed and
* developed a corresponding training concept,
* necessary training organized or mediated,
* regularly monitored the success of the measures and
* if necessary, correct the program and adapt it to new requirements.


The steps and actions taken in the emergency management awareness and training program should be recorded in writing in order to allow a review and performance review, which should be conducted on a regular basis.



