#M 6.154 Emergency management for web services
Responsible for initiation: Responsible for the individual applications, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Web services are a flexible but also complex solution to support business processes through IT. A loss or loss of performance can have a significant impact on the supported business processes.

Therefore, taking into account the comprehensive emergency management (see module B 1.3 Emergency Management) as well as the data backup concept (see module B 1.4 Data backup concept), it is necessary to take appropriate precautions to prevent emergencies and treat them appropriately.

The basis for this is an emergency planning that takes into account the different relevant events in the risk analysis. These can be in particular:



## Examples 
* The necessary keys must be recoverable for the cryptographic functions. New keys and certificates, for example for transport encryption, must be generated or procured in a sufficiently short time. In some circumstances, the provision of replacement keys in a safe place may serve this purpose.
* Required Web service configuration and metadata must be documented and backed up to allow for recovery.
* The documentation must be kept in a suitable place to be available quickly in an emergency. The quality of the documentation must make it possible for a knowledgeable third party to familiarize themselves with the environment within a reasonable period of time.
* If there are high or very high requirements for the availability of the web service, it should be checked whether the web service is being built redundantly and distributed over different locations.




