#M 6.114 Creation of an emergency concept
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, emergency officer

Responsible for implementation: Emergency Representative

An emergency concept is used to implement the emergency strategy and describes the planned procedure for achieving the goals set for emergency management. The emergency concept covers the entirety of the documents created in the emergency management process. It consists of the two essential components of the contingency planning concept and the emergency manual. It reflects the two key tasks of emergency management, to strengthen the robustness of business processes, to reduce the likelihood of an incident, and to best prepare the agency or company to cope with an emergency or crisis to minimize the damage effects. The emergency preparedness concept describes the present framework conditions and includes all information that arises during conception that does not contribute to the direct management of an emergency. The information needed directly for coping with an emergency, such as contact information or instructions, is described in the emergency manual.

Any concrete precautionary measure must ultimately be based on the emergency concept. For this reason, this must be carefully planned and implemented. The individual aspects briefly outlined below are dealt with in detail in the BSI Standard 100-4 Emergency Management.

A prerequisite for the preparation of an emergency concept is basic knowledge of the institution or the defined scope of the emergency management and a profound understanding of the business activity. The required information, which includes the master data and an overview of the business processes, must be made available to the emergency management. The business process overview should also include the information about interdependencies between processes as well as the information about which business processes are needed to manufacture the main products or to provide the main services of the institution. Outsourced processes are also to be taken into account in the business process overview, as are suppliers, cooperation partners and outsourcing service providers in the dependencies.

One of the first steps in the design process is to investigate the impact of business interruptions, to determine the availability requirements for the business processes and their required resources, and to set the necessary recovery times.

For this purpose, a Business Impact Analysis (BIA) should be carried out. There are several methods to determine the required results. To do this, select a method appropriate for the institution to carry out the BIA, set parameters for the chosen method and document the decisions.

Experience has shown that methods based on elaborate numerical considerations often generate an unreasonable amount of effort. A pragmatic approach, which is particularly suitable for small institutions, is, for example, to identify, classify and prioritize the relevant processes in a workshop in cooperation with those responsible.

The chosen method for carrying out a BIA should at least include the following steps:

* It must be analyzed and assessed how an interruption of business processes or value chains affects the authority or the company and how the damage can develop during this time.
* For the business processes, the restart parameters must be identified or defined. These include: the availability request, which indicates the transition from a breakdown to an emergency, the maximum tolerable downtime, the restart time, the restart level and the maximum permissible data loss.


In addition, it is recommended to set the maximum permissible recovery time or the maximum permissible emergency operation.

* The business processes must be prioritized for the restart. A classification into restart classes may make sense. However, it should be noted that the priorities and the restart times must be achievable economically and with the given financial and human resources. Mutual dependencies of the business processes are to be considered. It must be determined which business processes are classified as critical for the institution and thus included in the further consideration for the conception.
* At least for the critical business processes, the required resources for the normal operation and the emergency operation are to be ascertained and the degree of dependency of the respective business process on the resources to be determined. If single-points-of-failure are identified, they should be specially marked. Single-point-of-failure refers to resources whose failure would cause a complete failure of business processes. It is advisable to provide these for a quick check of the measures.
* For the resources, the criticality must be assessed and the availability requirement as well as the recovery or recovery time determined.


The emergency officer coordinates and carries out the BIA with the help of the emergency coordinator. The main contact persons and interview partners for the implementation of the BIA are the business process and resource managers. The results of the BIA must be documented in writing and confirmed by the institution's management.

Detailed information for a possible method of performing a Business Impact Analysis is included in the BSI Standard 100-4 Emergency Management.

In order to find the causes of possible business process interruptions, a risk analysis must be carried out. The objectives and a suitable method for carrying out the risk analysis must be defined and documented. When carrying out the risk analysis, it may be helpful to include the effects of failures identified in the BIA, and vice versa. The result of the risk analysis is the establishment of the main risks for the continuity of the business processes and the critical resources of the institution (see BSI standard 100-3 Risk analysis based on IT-Grundschutz). For each identified risk, it is necessary to decide which risk strategies should be used to reduce the impact, reduce the likelihood of occurrence, and minimize downtime.

In order to deduce the need to be able to determine concrete protective measures and restart strategies from the general goals, the identified protection requirements and the risk assessment, it makes sense to survey the actual state of the critical business processes and their supporting resources. By comparing the target values ??for restart and restoration defined in the BIA as well as the institution's initial risk appetite (risk acceptance level) with the currently implemented restarting measures and protective measures, the existing gaps for the restart will be used and the risk treatment identified.

In order to close these, meaningful measures must be identified in the further conception which increase the reliability of the critical business processes and their required resources, enable a timely restart or recovery and thus the downtime and limit the damage in the event of an emergency. It is recommended that various policy options be developed for emergency management, business continuity, and recovery and recovery of resources

* meet the specified requirements for business continuity, recovery and recovery,
* are in a reasonable cost-benefit ratio,
* result in a coordinated, comprehensive overall solution and
* Take into account or involve the most important stakeholders.


Appropriate strategies must be selected and the decision documented. It should also be noted how the cooperation with suppliers, cooperation partners or outsourcing service providers should take place in an emergency. If necessary, IT measures must be coordinated with the security management.

It is an emergency concept consisting of emergency preparedness concept and emergency manual to create. The emergency preparedness concept contains all the information that comes with the conception including the selected measures for the risk treatment and to enable a fast restart and recovery. The emergency manual contains the information needed directly for and during emergency management. These include, but are not limited to, the business continuity plans, the recovery and recovery plans, including replacement and elimination schedules, and emergency plans for immediate action. The business continuity schedules, recovery and recovery schedules contain all the information needed to enable rapid startup of an emergency operation and restore normal operations for processes and resources. The plans should contain the information about the recovery times and priorities for the processes and resources, as well as various recovery options for various damage events. Emergency plans for emergency measures should, inter alia, ensure that the well-being of the persons concerned is ensured.

Depending on the extent of the institution and the integration of emergency management into the institution's risk management, it may be useful to create a crisis management manual and a crisis communication plan. The Crisis Response Manual should provide guidance for the strategic decision-making of the crisis management team. Crisis communication contains the information about the way of communicating with the media but also with other interest groups, criteria when and under what conditions is communicated and the communication strategy.

The various emergency plans must be coordinated. Each plan should contain the information

* who is responsible for the document,
* which scope the plan has,
* for what purpose it is to be used,
* by whom, under what conditions and how the plan is activated,
* what are the communication lines for this area and
* detailed what are the tasks and work steps to cope with the emergency.


In the totality of the plans, the following information should be included:

* Tire specifications for emergency management with tasks, rights and duties,
* Contact addresses of all employees with specific tasks in emergency management as well as external contact persons such as cooperation partners, service providers, aid organizations or supervisory authorities,
* Criteria for the escalation of the emergency and the description of the necessary steps and
* Information on how to record the situation, decisions and actions in an emergency.


All documents must be accessible by the persons who need them for their tasks in emergency management. You must be prepared for this understandable. More detailed information on the emergency concept can be found in the BSI standard 100-4 emergency management.

Simultaneously with the selection of the individual measures and the preparation of the emergency concept, implementation planning should take place. For this purpose, it must be noted in which period of time the individual measures are to be implemented and which can be implemented jointly if appropriate. In addition, the measures must be prioritized according to the urgency of the implementation. The implementation plan should include:

* Defining priorities (implementation order): All measures should be prioritized according to importance and effectiveness. In principle, measures against particularly serious risks should be given priority. Can z. B. For financial reasons, not all measures are implemented immediately, the measures with the greatest impact should be implemented first.
* The order of implementation should take into account possible interdependencies between measures.
* Responsibilities: For each measure, it is necessary to determine who is responsible for their initialisation, implementation and control or revision.


When selecting emergency measures, their appropriateness and cost-effectiveness must be taken into account. The documentation should contain specific information on responsibilities and responsibilities as well as planned control, audit and monitoring activities. The order for the implementation of open activities should be noted. In addition, the planned or deployed resources for the implementation of the individual emergency measures are to be documented.

With the emergency concept the information security is to be considered. It must be ensured that information security is ensured in the event of an emergency, during commissioning and operation of alternative solutions and resumption of normal operation. This includes, among other things, ensuring the confidentiality of data (eg access rights, encryption), adherence to the minimum requirements for data backup and compliance with legal requirements (eg archiving of business-relevant data ). For all emergency solutions, security concepts must be created and security measures implemented. Therefore, close cooperation with the IT security officer must be ensured.

An emergency concept may include confidential information, such as: Information about weak points or information about protective measures. Such information may be classified as confidential and may then only be disclosed to the persons in charge. The emergency concept should therefore be structured so that individual parts can be passed on to the specific addressee group.



