#M 6.72 Failure precaution with mobile phones
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: user, IT manager

A mobile phone may fail for various reasons or be impaired in its functionality. This, of course, is particularly annoying when it is badly needed or important data is lost. Therefore, appropriate precautions should be taken from the outset to prevent a failure or to minimize the problems.

The state of charge and the functionality of the mobile phone battery should be checked regularly (see also M 4.115 Securing the power supply of mobile phones).

All data stored on the mobile phone such as phone book entries, messages, etc. should be stored on a different medium at regular intervals so that they can be reconstructed in case of doubt. There are several options for this:

* The most important settings such as PINs and the configuration of security mechanisms should be documented in writing and kept safe according to their protection needs
* All data stored on the SIM card, eg. B. Telefonb cher, can be read via SIM card reader and appropriate software in a PC and managed there. This also has the advantage that address data on the PC can be maintained more easily and synchronized with other address databases. In particular, if several mobile phones are used (see also M 2.190 setting up a mobile phone pool) is a comparison of the phone books in this way makes sense. If only the data on the SIM card is backed up, all users should be warned that they should only store phone numbers and the like there. Since this method usually requires additional hardware (the SIM card reader) and the storage capacity of the SIM card compared to the phone memory is much lower, but the phone memory should be used for address books better. This variant also has the advantage that depending on the model, the contact data can be in the vCard format, which can be processed by many different IT systems (mobile phones, smartphones and PCs).
* The mobile phone can also be connected to another IT system, eg. As a notebook or an organizer, coupled so that the data to be backed up in this way are replaced if a suitable synchronization software for the selected mobile phone exists (see also M 5.81 Secure data transfer via mobile phones) , In this case, both the data stored on the SIM card and in the device can be saved.


If a mobile phone is to be continuously available, a replacement mobile phone or a replacement battery (if possible) should be included.

If mobile phones are used in alarms, so if z. If, for example, the burglar alarm system sends alarm messages via GSM or if emergency personnel are to be notified via mobile phones, an alternative option must always be provided.



## Examples 
* Are the data stored on mobile phones backed up at regular intervals on a different medium?
* Are all confidential data deleted from the mobile phone before repairs (and previously secured)?




