#M 6.128 Training on evidence-securing tools
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

The members of the security incident management team need to be familiar with and know how to use the digital evidence protection and analysis tools, as important data is inadvertently destroyed during a live response analysis can. Especially in public agencies or companies with distributed locations, experts in the field of security precautions can not always be on site in the first few hours after a security incident has become known. In such cases, local, trustworthy IT personnel, or even better, information security personnel, can be entrusted with securing the evidence. For this purpose, these persons should be instructed in the handling of the respective tools. This also applies to administrators of servers, security gateways or other IT systems if they need to back up log files, for example. As a result, the persons involved also become aware of any weaknesses and errors in the tools used, which could influence the analysis results.

When choosing tools to collect or analyze digital evidence, it is important to know the origin of these tools. The software tools must come from trustworthy sources, for example, directly from the manufacturer. In addition, for example, checksum methods should be used to detect unauthorized manipulation of the tools early. This is particularly relevant if tools from the open source environment are to be used, of which various variants may be in circulation.



