#M 6.131 Qualify and evaluate security incidents
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

The more differentiated the classification of a disturbance or a security incident, the more precise the control of the processing and the evaluation of this disturbance are possible, but the more complex the coordination and application of the classification. Therefore, the classification structure should be regularly checked for effectiveness and appropriateness. There should be a consistent classification procedure for all types of failures and security incidents. This should be coordinated between security management and incident management (ie troubleshooting).

The final classification may be different from the reported classification, as users are usually told only symptoms rather than causes, or the protection needs of the affected systems are detected later. If the extent of a security incident is extended by additionally affected systems, this can also lead to a reclassification.

Along with the classification, the failure should be linked to other information, including:

* which applications, IT systems and services are affected by the malfunction,
* which employees or working group were commissioned to remedy the fault,
* if other, already known errors and problems, such. For example, security gaps in IT products and configurations may be associated with the malfunction.


The tool used for the detection of faults should make it possible to record the faults with such classifications and additional information.



