#M 6.101 Data backup with VoIP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to be able to quickly resume VoIP operation in the case of misconfigurations or a failure that can only be remedied by replacing a component, backups of all important configuration files must be made on a regular basis. For data backup, the procedure described in block B 1.4 Data backup concept must be used. The extent of the files to be backed up must be determined on the basis of the VoIP component used. These include, among others

* all VoIP-specific configuration settings,
* Higher-level configuration settings, such as IP addresses, passwords and all relevant configurations of the operating system used,
* Log data and
* Entries individually made by the user, such as personal telephone books.


These configuration settings must be backed up regularly. Before and after each change of the configuration, a fuse must also be carried out. It is important to ensure that multiple versions (generations) of the backup files are maintained. A faulty configuration can often be remedied by importing the version that was generated before.

It has to be taken into account that the existing configuration files may not be accepted after a change of release. If a device with a more recent or older release is used after a hardware failure, the existing configuration files may not be taken over directly. Therefore, when exchanging current manufacturer information, for example from changelog files to sift and take into account. If the configuration files have to be adapted during a release change, both the old and the new version must be backed up. If you have problems with the newer release, you can switch to the old, possibly more stable version at a later date.

Data protection must be performed on IT systems and media that are independent of the IT systems and media used for operation. These can be, for example, tape drives, CD-RWs or other IT systems. When transferring to another system over a network, consider encrypting the data or transferring it over your own network of administration to protect it from tampering and tampering.

Recovery exercises must be carried out regularly in order to check the recoverability of the backup (see also M 6.41 Exercises for Data Reconstruction).



