#M 6.141 Defining alternative methods for Internet use
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer, Supervisor, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: IT Security Officer, Human Resources

Access to the Internet may be for various reasons, or be disrupted. However, individual Internet services may also be restricted in their functionality. Although measures to protect availability are frequently used at several levels, it can still happen that certain Internet services may be temporarily unavailable or unusable for users. If the loss of Internet use can not be tolerated by the agency or the company, it is important to establish appropriate evasion procedures. These evasive procedures are used to bridge downtime in a manner that avoids or at least minimizes disruption to proper business operations. In the context of emergency management, therefore, a concept should be drafted, with the help of avoidance procedures, the consequences of a failure can be minimized and which activities are to be carried out in the event of a failure.

Example: In an institution, employees book the train tickets that they need for business travel, even on the Internet. In order to avoid delays in the event of an internet outage, there is a telephone hotline for this case, through which you can alternatively book your tickets.

When selecting alternative methods for Internet use, at least the following scenarios should be distinguished:

* Falls in the area of ??its own network
* Completion of the communication links between the own network and the used IT systems on the Internet
* Completed the used IT systems on the Internet itself


Failures in the area of ??the own network (scenario  1) are dealt with in the module B 1.3 emergency management and the measures from the area of ??emergency preparedness in the other building blocks of the IT-Grundschutz catalogs.

Scenarios 2 and 3 are difficult to influence from one's own institution, as the affected technical components are usually operated by third parties. The use of a second, alternative Internet provider and possibly an alternative communication path (see also M 6.75 Redundant communication links) offers some protection against certain failures in the network area. However, if larger network areas fail, it may happen that business-critical Internet services are not available or can not be used.

An overview should therefore be made of the Internet services and applications that have high availability requirements. For these, appropriate avoidance procedures should be established. This overview should be updated regularly.

It is also advisable to consider alternative procedures that make do without internet services as far as possible. Often, telephone or fax-based communication is used. It should be noted that cross-relationships may exist here as well, which may limit the effectiveness of such alternative solutions. For example, when using Internet telephony, it must be ensured that a failure of the Internet access does not automatically result in a complete failure of the telephony and fax service. Another example of cross-relationships (dependencies) is that in some cases the call centers of service providers also depend on the correct functioning of their own Internet servers. In this case, it does not help to call the hotline of a service provider's Internet server, as the call center will probably not work.

In principle, the processing and communication on paper as an alternative method into consideration. Frequently, however, such processes are ruled out, since in many cases too great delays result.



