#M 6.67 Use of detection measures for security incidents
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

In addition to the prevention, the detection of security precautions is of great importance. There are a number of security-related irregularities that can be automated with the appropriate technical support and can therefore be detected early. These detection measures usually increase the reliability of the determination and drastically reduce the time between occurrence and detection of an irregularity. However, the gain in responsiveness and time is offset by the expense of implementation and control, which should be estimated beforehand. Such detection measures are practically indispensable if, in the event of damage, very great damage, including personal injury, is to be expected.

Examples of such technical detection measures are:

* Hazard alarm system (see M 1.18 hazard alarm system),
* Remote display of faults (see M 1.31 Remote fault display),
* Computer virus search programs (see M 2.157 Selection of a suitable virus protection program),
* Intrusion Detection and Intrusion Response Systems (see M 5.71 Intrusion Detection and Intrusion Response Systems),
* Cryptographic checksums (see M 4.34 Use of Encryption, Checksum or Digital Signatures) or
* Use of a security real-time monitor for z / OS systems to detect security breaches more quickly.
* Use of a central protocol analysis to detect possible attacks on IT systems.


Not all safety incidents can be detected in good time by purely technical measures. Often, additional organizational measures have to be added. The reliability of technical detection measures generally depends on how current they are and how well they are adapted to the actual circumstances. The reliability of organizational detection measures depends strongly on how reliable the persons responsible for their implementation are, but also on how far the measures can actually be implemented during ongoing operations. All detection measures must be checked regularly for their suitability.

Typical examples of detection measures that are wholly or partly organizational in nature are:

* Obtaining information  of security gaps (see M 2.35 Obtaining information about security gaps in the system)
* Regular safety check of selected IT systems (see eg M 4.93 Regular integrity check, M 5.8 Regular safety check of the network, M 5.141 Regular safety checks in WLANs)
* Regular evaluation of log files (see eg M 2.64 Control of log files, M 4.5 Logging of PBXs, M 4.25 Use of logging in Unix system, M 4.47 Logging of security gateway activity ,ten, M 5.9 logging on the server)
* Evaluation of SMF data sets under z / OS (see M .2.291 Security reporting and audits on z / OS). Information from these SMF data sets can be used either for batch reports or as a source for security real-time monitors, which in turn can control a central control console. Such central consoles are offered by various manufacturers as part of automation products.


There should be an overview of the detection parameters used.

The detected security incidents should be registered directly as a malfunction so that they can be documented comprehensibly from the first occurrence to the solution. It is therefore necessary to regulate in which systems these are recorded. In addition, the service desk must be aware of what information is to be registered when a security incident is first reported (if the notification already indicates that the incident is a security incident).



