#M 6.122 Definition of a security incident
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Analogous to the definition of an emergency (see M 6.110 Definition of Scope and the Emergency Management Strategy), it is indispensable for the treatment of security incidents that a company or a public authority has a clear idea of ??what constitutes an emergency Security incident is. Above all, it must be clear how safety incidents differ from faults in daytime operation. Only in this way is it possible to find the appropriate starting point for the special measures of the incident management process as part of the normal troubleshooting process. A largely formal definition without too broad spaces of interpretation can additionally facilitate the start of this process. The definition of a security incident should be based on the protection needs of the affected business processes, IT services, IT systems or IT applications. For example, based on the need for protection or the results of a business impact analysis of the directly or potentially affected system, a threshold can be defined as of when an event is a security incident. In addition, security management should be able to declare an extraordinary security incident, regardless of the definition limits.

A possible definition of a security incident could z. B. A security incident in our company / agency is an event that determines the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our information, business processes, IT services, IT systems or IT applications with high or very high levels of security Protection requirements are impaired in such a way that great damage can occur to our company / agency / customer / business partner.

The definition of a security incident must be known to all employees involved in the incident handling process. It makes sense to reconcile the individual definition of a security incident with the definition of an emergency.



