#M 6.60 Definition of reporting routes for security incidents
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

In addition to determining the roles, responsibilities and rules of conduct for security incidents, appropriate reporting channels must also be defined. Here is the following pattern:

* In the event of a threat of force majeure such as fire, water, power failure, burglary and theft, the locally available emergency services as well as the technical operational management are to be informed (fire brigade, building services, gate, security service, ...).
* In the case of hardware-technical problems or irregularities in the operation of IT systems, the responsible administrator or user support must be notified.
* In the case of major failures or other scenarios listed in the emergency manual, the emergency officer and head of the crisis team must be informed.
* In the case of suspected preventive actions and events that can not otherwise be attributed (eg data manipulation, unauthorized use of rights, suspected espionage or sabotage), the IT security officer or security management must be notified.
* If a single point of contact exists for the reporting of faults or security incidents (see M 6.125 Setting up a central contact point for the reporting of security incidents), this point should be included in the reporting path so that the incident can be documented there and, if necessary, further messages can be correlated.


In particular, it is important that all employees are familiar with the contact persons and the reporting channels for all types of security incidents. Z. B. in the internal telephone directory or in the intranet a list with names, telephone numbers and E-Mail addresses of the respective contact persons are to be contained. However, it must not be difficult or time-consuming to forward suspected cases. For this, fast and secure communication connections must be available. The authenticity of the communication partner and the confidentiality of the information reported on the suspected case must be ensured.

All employees should be informed that information about a security incident to third parties can only be provided via the security management (see also M 6.65 Notification of affected bodies in case of security incidents).

In advance, language arrangements should be agreed with the staff of the press and public relations to ensure that no information is unauthorized and that no false information is given to the public (see also M 6.59 Definition of responsibilities in case of security incidents).

Exercises should be sporadically checked to ensure that the rules of conduct for security incidents are adequate and feasible and that they are known to all employees (see also M 6.68 Efficiency review of the management system for the treatment of security incidents) ).

Particularly in the case of safety precautions, it is repeatedly shown how important a good working atmosphere and a healthy communication culture are so that safety incidents can be reported on immediately and dealt with openly (see also M 3.8 Prevention of disturbances in the working environment



