#M 6.97 Emergency preparedness for SAP systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

As with any other IT system, emergency preparedness also needs to be provided for an SAP system. In order for the preparation to be targeted, an emergency concept must have been created during the planning and design phase (see M 2.341 Planning of the SAP deployment), which also defines the emergency cases to be considered in the context of emergency preparedness ,

The following emergencies should at least be considered:

* Failure of an SAP server
* Failure of the database of an SAP system
* Compromise an SAP system
* Failure of the transport system (ABAP) or software distribution (JAVA)
* Failure of a complete data center


In general, an SAP system does not differ from other IT systems in terms of emergency preparedness. For this reason, the emergency preparedness measures of other relevant modules that are applicable to the IT systems (eg server computer, client computer, database) that make up the SAP system must also be implemented.

Responsibilities in the context of emergency preparedness and defined emergency procedures must be clearly assigned to persons. It is advisable to carry out regular emergency exercises and to adjust the processes based on the experience gained.

Emergency preparedness should include at least the following measures and be extended according to individual requirements:

* An emergency administrator should be set up and arrangements established for use.
* Regular backups of the SAP system must be carried out. The procedure and frequency must be recorded in the data protection concept.
* Procedures for restoring an SAP system must be defined.
* An alternative system should be provided with correspondingly high availability requirements.


Depending on the application scenario, protection against computer viruses (see M 4.271 Virus protection for SAP systems) can also be part of emergency preparedness.



## Examples 
* Which emergency was present?
* By whom and when did the access take place?
* What activities and changes have occurred?




