#M 6.26 Regular data backup of the PBX configuration data
Responsible for initiation: TK-Anlagenverantwortlicher

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The configuration and application data of the TC system used must be regularly secured, especially after they have changed. For this, a corresponding concept must be created and coordinated with the general concepts of data backup (see B 1.4 Data backup concept). Due to the similarity, the concept can be based on that for the active network components (see M 6.52 Regular backup of the configuration data of active network components). For hybrid or VoIP PBX systems, the system installation and configuration can be secured via images, snapshots, software and configuration backup (see also M 6.101 Data backup for VoIP).

Application data such as contact information or billing data should also be saved. Backup dates and forms must take into account the requirements for the maximum tolerable data loss. The corresponding definitions are to be included in an overall data protection plan of the central IT area.

It is essential that in any case with the help of the precautions taken, the current condition can be restored before the occurrence of a malfunction or an emergency.

It should be checked at regular intervals if these backups are actually working as a basis for system recovery. Typical tests of this type are:

* Check disks with system or backup for readability
* Check images for readiness after trial installation on test systems or comparable replacement hardware.


The tests and test results have to be documented.



