#M 6.65 Notification of affected bodies during security incidents
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer, IT Director, Press Office

If a security incident has occurred, all affected internal and external bodies must be informed promptly. These are, in particular, those who could be directly harmed by the security incident, who have to take countermeasures, or those who can prepare information about security incidents and help with prevention or elimination. If necessary, the public should also be informed, especially if information has already been leaked.

For this purpose, a clear concept must be developed individually for the security incident, who is informed by whom in which order and at what depth. For this purpose, it must be ensured that information about the security incident is given exclusively by designated persons responsible, such as the security management or the press office. It should be documented who, when and which information was transmitted. This is important for follow-up, but can also be legally relevant.

Of course, whoever receives information in which degree of detail depends, in particular, on the technical background. No false or beautifully colored information should be disclosed, as it may cause confusion, misjudgments and loss of image.

By way of example, it will be shown below which parts are typically explained via which contents:



## Examples 
* Head of IT,
* Head of affected departments,
* IT users,
* IT administrators
* IT User Service / Service Desk,
* Change Management (for the recording of the execution of the measures),
* House technic,
* berwachungspersonal,
* internal security forces and
* Doorman.




