#M 6.95 Provisioning and data protection for smartphones, tablets and PDAs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

A smartphone, tablet or PDA may fail or be functional for various reasons. This, of course, is particularly annoying when it is badly needed or important data is lost. Therefore, precautions should be taken from the outset to prevent a failure or to minimize the problems.

The state of charge and the functional capacity of the battery should be checked regularly (see M 4.31 Ensuring the power supply in mobile use).

All data stored on the mobile terminal, such as phonebook entries, notes, etc., should be stored on a different medium at regular intervals, so that they can be reconstructed in case of doubt. There are several options for this:

* The most important settings such as passwords and the configuration of security mechanisms should be documented in writing and kept safe according to their protection needs. If the terminals are centrally controlled and configured by means of a mobile device management software, the corresponding profiles of the terminals must be secured so that they can be played back promptly.
* The data on the smartphone, tablet or PDA should be regularly updated with another location, eg. B. be synchronized with a PC, a server service of the institution or optionally with an external service provider. However, this does not replace a complete backup.
* It should therefore be regularly a complete backup of the smartphone, tablet or PDA on another IT system, z. A notebook or a desktop PC. Particularly recommended is the complete data backup by a complete system image (snapshot). The solution is convenient and significantly reduces the time it takes to install and configure a new device. If the IT system needs to be rigorously manipulated for this solution, such as by rooting or installing an alternative recovery on Android-based devices, the risk of tampering with the convenience of faster reuse should be taken care of be weighed. If necessary, the additional information security measures required by the Rooten or other measures are so high that there is no advantage over the less convenient backup method without a system image.
* Since smartphones, tablets and PDAs limit their available storage space, most models can be upgraded with external storage media (see also M 4.232 Secure Use of Additional Memory Cards). Widespread are hierf r memory cards, z. B.Memory cards that are quickly interchangeable, making them a great way to back up on the go. This is especially useful if a user is often absent for a long time and thus for a long time no synchronization between IT system and smartphone, tablet or PDA takes place. As is generally the case for data backups, they must be stored securely. If the memory cards are left unattended in the terminal or elsewhere, unauthorized persons can copy the data stored on them. If you subsequently return the memory card, you will not even leave any traces.
* All data stored on removable memory cards must also be backed up, at the latest at the next synchronization.


For most smartphones, tablets or PDAs, the operating system resides in flash memory, which often provides enough space to back up at least the most important data, such as Personal Information Manager (PIM) content. In order to accomplish this comfortably, there are depending on the manufacturer supplied or additional tools. It should be noted that after a complete reset, all data outside of the flash memory is deleted, including all passwords for access protection. An attacker can easily gain access to the flash memory and the data stored there. Before a smartphone, tablet, or PDA is passed on, e.g. For example, for repair or other users, all data, including flash memory, should be deleted.

If a smartphone, tablet or PDA is to be continuously available, a replacement battery should always be included.



## Examples 
* Are the state of charge and the functionality of the PDA batteries regularly checked?
* Are the data stored on PDAs regularly backed up?
* Are all data deleted before the transfer of PDA s?




