#M 6.16 Take out insurance
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: administration / company management

Each institution must decide how to deal with the residual risks that remain after the implementation of security measures. By taking out insurance, the financial damage can be reduced. Consequential damage resulting from the failure of the affected business processes can also be partially insured by means of appropriate insurance policies (eg insurance against business interruptions caused by fire). It should be noted, however, that there may also be uninsurable residual risks. This concerns, for example, image damage. When taking out insurance, therefore, the specific conditions and any exclusion clauses should be taken into account. It should also be noted that a longer period of time may need to be financially bridged until the insurance company replaces the damage.

For German authorities, the conclusion of insurance is not customary.

The types of insurance can be divided into:

* Third party damage (liability insurance) Personal injury, property damage including environmental damage as well as property damage
* Property damage (property insurance, including software damage) Building insuranceSachinhaltsversicherungErtragsausfallversicherung (insurance against business interruption) Electronic insuranceTreu damage insurance (eg insurance against computer abuse)
* Legal expenses insurance


Under IT Baseline Protection Tools, there is a table that gives a brief overview of which insurance companies can help in which areas to reduce the financial impact of potential damage.



