#M 6.159 Prevent loss and theft of smartphones, tablets and PDAs
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

In order to prevent the theft or loss of a smartphone, tablet or PDA from losing or misusing all contact data, access data to the institution's network and other valuable information on the terminal, appropriate recommendations must be implemented.

Only end devices should be used which support complete encryption of the data. If the terminal has an external memory card, it should also be encrypted as far as possible. For this, a secure password must be selected (see M 2.11 Control of password usage). For data backup, M 6.56 data backup using cryptographic methods should be used.

In the event of the loss or theft of smartphones, tablets and PDAs, it should be possible to remotely take action to block, delete and locate mobile devices. But there are applications that have to be selected and installed on the devices. Since most Mobile Device Management (MDM) solutions or anti-virus programs (see M 4.230 Central Administration of Smartphones, Tablets and PDAs or M 4.466 Use of Virus Protection Programs on Smartphones, Tablets and PDAs) offer these functions with, should ,ft, whether the already used solutions contain all necessary functions. When new MDM solutions or anti-virus programs are purchased, make sure they include all the features needed to deal with theft or loss.

A clear procedure should be defined for the theft or loss of office smartphones, tablets or PDAs. All affected employees must know the relevant processes, contact details and other information.

In the event of the loss or theft of smartphones, tablets or PDAs, immediately inform a body in the institution that can arrange any further action. First, any access of this terminal to the information network should be switched off, for example by e-mail or VPN. Then all worthwhile information should be deleted from the terminal remotely and the device should be locked. In many cases, the lock screen can be provided with a freely selectable message. Here, the honest finder should be provided with all the necessary contact data so that he can return the end device of the institution.

A thief will usually try to prevent the terminal from being located by removing the SIM card. It is therefore recommended to use such applications for locating, deleting and locking the terminal device, which can also perform these actions on an event-based basis. Thus, all valuable information should be automatically deleted from the terminal if another SIM card is inserted or the SIM card is removed. In order to better identify the thief, it makes sense for the application to automatically transmit the telephone number of the new SIM card and the GPS coordinates to the institution. When such automated messages arrive, access to information from the institution should also be blocked for this terminal. However, such a message does not replace the user's personal loss message.

If lost devices reappear, they should be examined for possible hardware and software manipulation, eg. For example, if screws have been opened, seals have been removed or the weight has changed compared to the delivery condition. If there is a suspicion, the device should either be disposed of immediately or further examined by a specialist. To ensure there are no malicious programs on the recovered smartphones, tablets or PDAs, all data must be deleted from the terminal and the terminal then completely reinstalled.



