#M 6.33 Development of a data protection concept
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager, responsible for the individual applications

The procedure of data backup is determined by a large number of influencing factors. The IT system, data volume, data rate of change, and availability requirements are some of these factors. In the data protection concept, it is important to find a solution that takes these factors into account and at the same time is economically justifiable from a cost perspective.

The technical possibilities to carry out data backups are manifold. However, the selection is always determined by the factors mentioned. Therefore, it is first and foremost necessary to determine and comprehensibly document the influence of the IT systems and the IT applications realized with them. Then the appropriate procedure has to be developed and documented. At the end, the implementation must be ordered by the authorities / management.

The data protection concept must stipulate the data restorability by means of practical exercises as an obligation for the guarantee of a functioning data backup (see M 6.41 Exercises for Data Reconstruction).

The results should be updatable and extensible in a data protection concept. A possible structure of a data protection concept is shown as an example in the following table of contents:



## Examples 
* Application data, system data, software, log data
* Full backup, incremental backup




