#M 6.35 Defining the procedure for data backup
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer

The procedure for how the data backup is to be performed is determined by the influencing factors determined in M 6.34 Survey of influencing factors of the data backup. For each IT system and for each type of data, the procedure for data backup must be defined. If necessary, even a distinction must be made for individual IT applications of the IT system if different data backup strategies result, which may be particularly useful in the area of ??large computers.

The following modalities of a data backup are to be considered for the definition of a procedure for the data backup:

* Type of data backup,
* Frequency and time of data backup,
* Number of generations,
* Procedure and storage medium,
* Responsibility for data backup,
* depository,
* Requirements for the backup archive,
* Transport modalities and
* Aufbewahrungsmodalitt.


The following table shows the dependencies between the modalities of a data backup and the influencing factors, and then explains:

X means direct influence, (X) means indirect influence

Table: Data backup

Explanations:



## Examples 
* Full data backup: in the case of full data backup, all files to be backed up are saved to an additional data carrier at a certain time. It is not taken into account whether the files have changed since the last backup or not. Therefore, a full data backup requires a large amount of memory. The advantage is that the data is completely available for the backup time and the restoration of files is quick and easy, since only the affected files have to be extracted from the last full data backup. If full data backups are rarely carried out, extensive post-modification changes within a file can result in a high post-acquisition effort.
* Incremental data backup: In incremental data backup, in contrast to full data backup, only those files are backed up that have changed from the last data backup (full data backup or incremental backup). This saves storage space and reduces the time required for data backup. For the restoration of the data, i. Generally, a higher amount of time is required because the files have to be extracted from backups of different points in time. The incremental data backup is always based on a full data backup. At periodic intervals, full data backups are generated, in between, one or more incremental backups are performed. During the restoration, the last full data backup is taken as a basis, which is supplemented by the files that have since been changed from the incremental backups.
* Differential data backup: with the differential data backup only those files are backed up that have changed compared to the last full data backup. A differential backup requires more space than an incremental one, but files can be restored more easily and quickly. For the restoration of the data, the last full data backup and the most recent differential are sufficient, unlike the incremental ones, where several data backups may have to be read in succession.
* Note: Data mirroring is often referred to as a backup method. During data mirroring, the data is stored redundantly and simultaneously on different data carriers. Since the failure of one of these memories can be bridged without loss of time, data mirroring increases the availability. However, it does not replace data backup, as it does not help against such things as theft, fire or unintentional data deletion.




