#M 6.73 Emergency planning and emergency exercises for the Lotus Notes / Domino environment
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, Emergency Representative, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Specialist, IT Security Officer, Emergency Representative

For the Lotus Notes / Domino environment, an appropriate contingency plan must be prepared, depending on the contingency planning relevance defined in the superordinate business continuity planning (see also module B 1.3 Emergency Management). It must include all aspects of emergency preparedness and also the steps necessary to recover and restart the environment after an emergency has occurred.

In emergency planning, relevant emergency scenarios for the Lotus Notes / Domino environment must be considered. In particular, the default of Notes / Domino as the basis of institution-wide identity management and the failure of the external, central identity management (both only if relevant) in the emergency scenarios must be taken into account.

The goal of emergency planning must not only be the recovery and restart of individual components, but above all the restoration and restart of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment. Therefore, a restoration of the data taking into account the replication problem and a synchronized restoration of the components, taking into account all component dependencies in the emergency planning, should be aimed at. It is possible to provide for the restoration of restricted environments where only the main services are operated.

Clustering at Different Levels (Operating System, Lotus Notes / Domino Environment) and Redundant Data Storage The corresponding storage solutions are primarily tools for ensuring a high or very high availability of Lotus Notes / Domino and do not replace contingency planning. Nevertheless, with the right configuration, they can help to solve various emergency scenarios efficiently.

The mechanisms provided by Lotus Notes / Domino for recovering (for example, recovery for Notes IDs), resetting passwords in an ID vault (as of version 8.5), failover for directory maintenance, database repair (Fixup, Compact, Updall) and automatic recovery (Fault Recovery) are to be used with detailed knowledge of their operation in emergency planning.

Particular attention should be paid to the restoration of the certificate infrastructure. The emergency scenario of a compromise of the certificate infrastructure must be taken into consideration.

If DAOS (Domino Attachment and Object Service) is used as part of the new Lotus Notes / Domino versions (as of version 8.5), contingency planning must be adapted to the no longer redundant holding of attachments and objects.

To ensure that contingency planning for the Lotus Notes / Domino environment is appropriate and workable, it is necessary to conduct emergency contingency exercises.

Emergency exercises are to be planned in advance. Ideally, there is a higher-level planning for emergency exercises that ensures that all emergency-relevant information systems in emergency exercises are periodically taken into account.

The detailed planning and execution of emergency exercises for the Lotus Notes / Domino environment should focus on emergency scenarios that include the specifics of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform (for example, compromising the certificate hierarchy of Notes, corruption of replication mechanisms Lotus Notes / Domino &  .).

When planning and executing emergency exercises, the risks that may arise when carrying out emergency exercises must always be considered. It is therefore advisable first to carry out emergency exercises on a small scale and then to practice larger emergency scenarios. In particular, the scenarios, such. B. Restoring Corrupted Lotus Notes / Domino Databases Repairing, restoring, or restoring cross-database corruption in replication mechanisms should be handled with caution as part of emergency exercises.

Other realistic scenarios for emergency exercises for the Lotus Notes / Domino environment include denial-of-service attacks against e-mail or web services or compromise of the environment by exploiting vulnerabilities in a service offered on the Internet.

The implementation of the emergency exercises must be documented and the findings from the exercises must be incorporated in the improvement of the emergency planning and operation.



