#M 6.105 Emergency preparedness for printers, copiers and multifunction devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A prolonged failure of the existing printers, copiers and multifunction devices is usually intolerable. In particular, the failure of central components, which are required for the entire printer infrastructure, can lead to considerable impairment of the business processes. Depending on the availability requirements, appropriate measures must therefore be taken to reduce the downtime or the effects of failures.

Care should be taken to ensure that there is always enough consumable material, eg. Toner and paper. From a certain residual amount, which depends on the consumption, new consumables must be procured and made available. Further information can be found in measure M 2.52 Supply and Control of Consumables.

Various configuration settings must be made on each copier, printer and also on other components of the printing system. In order to be able to correctly set up these settings again after a failure or replacement, the configurations must be systematically documented (see also M 2.25 Documentation of the System Configuration).

The fewer printers or copiers available, the more serious is the failure of a single device. The failure of a print server is particularly problematic, as this usually only one or a few devices are available.

In order to be able to react to emergencies, a distinction should be made between central components on the one hand and printers and copiers on the other hand. With a higher protection requirement with regard to availability, consideration should be given to configuring redundant central components, such as print servers. If the single central server fails, you might not be able to print across the LAN.

Decentralized components, such as printers, are often found on several floors or in different offices of a building. In general, the printer landscape should be designed so that users can easily use another printer if one printer fails.

* Consideration should be given to provide replacement devices (cold standby) to local printers who have greater protection requirements for availability and are directly connected to a workstation. In the event of a failure, the defective printer could be promptly replaced by the replacement device.
* For large copiers and printers that are used by multiple people, maintenance contracts should be completed with a response time appropriate to the protection requirements.
* A list of specialized traders should be kept where new equipment can easily be procured.
* If required, spare parts can be stored which are frequently required. However, this only makes sense if appropriate specialist knowledge is available in order to be able to replace the spare parts on an on-going basis.




