#M 6.71 Data backup for mobile use of the IT system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

As a rule, IT systems used in mobile applications (eg laptops, notebooks) are not permanently integrated in a network. The data exchange with other IT systems usually takes place via data carriers or via temporary network connections. The latter can be realized, for example, by remote access or direct connection to a LAN after returning to the workstation. In contrast to stationary clients, it is therefore usually unavoidable in mobile IT systems that data is at least temporarily stored locally instead of on a central server. The loss of this data must be prevented by appropriate data protection measures.

In general, the following methods for data backup are available:

* Data Backup on External Media The advantage of this process is that it can be backed up almost anywhere, anytime. The disadvantage is that a suitable drive and a sufficient number of data carriers must be carried along, and that additional effort is required for the user for the proper handling of the data carriers. The volumes should have sufficient storage capacity so that the user does not need to insert multiple volumes per backup into the drive. In the case of unshaded data storage, there is also the danger that data carriers will be lost and thus sensitive data may be compromised. The data carriers and the mobile IT system should be kept as separate as possible so that the data carriers are not lost if the IT system is lost or stolen. Storage on external data storage media is particularly suitable , even if the data exchange with other IT systems takes place via external data carriers. These two processes can u. U. combined. After returning to the workstation, the data backups on the data carriers must be entered in the backup system or in the production system or the central data storage of the institution.
* Data backup via temporary network connectionsIf it is possible to connect the IT system regularly to a network, for example via remote access, the local data can also be backed up via the network connection. It is advantageous here that the user does not have to manage any data carriers and does not have to carry a corresponding drive. Furthermore, the method can be largely automated, for example, the data backup can be started automatically when using Remote Access after each dial-up process Data must suffice. The data transfer must not take too long and should not lead to excessive delays if the user has access to remote resources at the same time. With common access technologies (eg ISDN, modem, mobile phone), this means that only a small amount of data can be transported per backup process. Some backup programs therefore offer the option to only transfer information about the changes in the database since the last backup over the network connection. In many cases, the volume of data to be transported can be greatly reduced. An important requirement of the software used for data backup is that unexpected connection drops are detected and handled properly. The consistency of the saved data must not be impaired by disconnections.


In both methods of data backup, it is desirable to minimize the volume of data to be backed up. In addition to the use of lossless compression methods, which are integrated in many data protection programs, incremental or differential backup methods can also be used (see also M 6.35 Defining the procedure for data backup). However, this increases u. U. the effort for restoring a backup.

The data backup should be automated as far as possible so that the users have to carry out as few actions as possible themselves. If the cooperation of the users is necessary, they should be obliged to regularly perform the data backup (see M 2.41 Obligation of the employees for data backup). Finally, it should be sporadically checked whether backups created can be restored (see M 6.22 Sporadic check for recoverability of backups).



