#M 6.69 Emergency preparedness and reliability with fax servers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, fax post office

The precautionary and resilience measures of fax servers depend on the volume handled by the fax server (s) and the availability of this service.

First and foremost, it must be ensured that all configuration parameters of the communication cards used, the operating system and the fax server application are documented. If there are any changes to the configuration, the documentation must be updated accordingly. Only in this way can it be ensured that a fax server can be reinstalled in the shortest possible time in an emergency.

Furthermore, data backups should be carried out at regular intervals in accordance with the specifications of the data protection concept and the security policy. In addition to the data partitions, the partitions on which the operating system and the fax server application are located should also be included in the data backup.

The faxes stored on the fax server must be backed up regularly. If a permanent archiving of fax data is desired, this should not be done on the fax server but on external data media.

In order to continue to be able to send and receive faxes in the event of a failure of the fax server or the network, one or more conventional fax machines should possibly be provided. The number of devices required depends on the volume of incoming and outgoing fax transmissions in an emergency. It makes sense to keep as an emergency reserve the fax machines that were used before the installation of the fax server.

All other measures to increase the reliability cause z. T. considerable costs and will therefore probably only be considered in the case of higher availability requirements and must be considered on an individual basis.

First of all, the IT system on which the fax server is installed can be equipped with a RAID system. In this case, several hard disks are combined into a stack and the data thereon distributed to form redundancies on the various hard disks. This leads z. B. With a so-called RAID Level 5, there is no data loss even if one hard drive fails. However, the use of RAID technology reduces the total free capacity of the hard disks due to redundancy. Furthermore, it has to be considered that this solution is not a substitute for the external data backup and also does not protect against the total failure of the system.

Resiliency can also be achieved by using multiple fax servers. If one server fills, the load can be distributed to the other servers. An advantage of this solution is also that a load separation is achieved and the risk of overloading a single fax server is reduced. The disadvantage, however, is that received faxes that are on the failed server, at least for the duration of the failure are no longer available.

If faults in fax servers can only be tolerated in the minutes range due to availability requirements, the use of redundant servers is a good idea. For each fax server that is included in such a redundancy concept, a second server is then available to which the corresponding data is replicated. This solution provides - ggf. In combination with RAID systems, the highest level of reliability is possible, but it also causes considerable costs.



