#M 6.121 Creation of a guideline for the treatment of security incidents
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Many security incidents only become a major problem through incorrect reactions. This is the case, for example, when decisions are made hastily, for example when spontaneous data is deleted by an administrator, which would have been necessary to reconstruct the security incident.

In order to teach each employee the correct behavior when a security incident occurs, it makes sense to create target group-oriented guidelines for the handling of security incidents. This also makes it possible for all those involved to act calmly and deliberately in exceptional situations.

Administrators and security management members should have technical guidance as part of the incident-prevention management system. But also the users have to be involved early enough. Likewise, handling of troubleshooting (ie incident management) with security issues and security-related service requests should be regulated in the guideline. It is recommended to publish a guideline in the company or the authority which describes the appropriate procedure for the occurrence of a security incident and which sets out the process as well as reporting and escalation paths for all employees of the institution. In the preparation of the Directive, care should be taken to ensure that it is fully and practically applicable. The tasks of all parties involved must be clearly formulated. Behavior deviating from the policy should only be permitted in documented exceptions.

A distinction must be made here between generally applicable rules of conduct, which apply to all imaginable security incidents, and the IT-specific rules of conduct. The following general rules of conduct can be used for all types of security-related irregularities:

* All concerned should keep calm and take no hasty action.


* Irregularities should be reported immediately to the appropriate authorities according to a notification plan.
* Countermeasures may only be taken upon request by authorized persons.


* All accompanying circumstances are to be explained unspoken, openly and transparently by the persons concerned in order to contribute to the mitigation of damage.


* An initial assessment of possible levels of harm, consequential harm, potentially internally and externally affected and possible consequences based on personal experience should be made.
* Information about the security incident may not be disclosed to third parties unauthorized.


These general rules of conduct must be appropriately communicated to all potentially affected employees of a public authority or a company.

In addition, specific rules of conduct can be passed on to the parties concerned, in particular those who act as reporting centers for security incidents and who should take the first decisions or take the first measures. These include administrators, IT application managers and security management. These rules of conduct include those described in the following actions:

* M 6.23 Behavioral rules when malicious programs occur
* M 6.31 Rules of conduct after loss of system integrity
* M 6.48 Behavioral rules after loss of database integrity
* M 6.54 Rules of conduct after loss of network integrity
* M 6.102 Behavioral rules for WLAN security incidents


An example of how the Code of Conduct described in the Guidelines and the reporting plan (see M 6.61 Escalation Strategy for Security Incidents) can be communicated to any employee concerned is an information sheet signed by the authorities or management which summarizes the most important information and which can be kept in the workplace and additionally on the intranet. An example of such an information sheet can be found under the IT Baseline Protection Tools. In order to ensure that the information is actually available in an emergency, it makes no sense to distribute it only in electronic form, since then exactly this information could be affected by the security incident.

All information sheets on potential security incidents must be immediately updated whenever there is a relevant change in the organization, business processes or IT so that the rules of conduct described there are still effective and the reporting channels are correct.



