#M 6.32 Regular data backup
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

To avoid data loss, regular backups must be performed. In most computer systems, these can be largely automated. There are regulations to be made, which data will be backed up by whom and when.

At least the data that can not be derived from other information must be regularly backed up. Documentation, program and program flow descriptions are to be kept in accordance with S.2.111 Provision of manuals.

It is recommended to create a data backup concept.

Depending on the amount and importance of the data that is constantly being re-stored and the possible damage caused by loss of this data, the following must be specified:

* Time interval examples: daily, weekly, monthly
* Time examples: at night, on Fridays in the evening
* Number of Generations to Retain Example: Daily full backup will keep the last seven backups, as well as the Friday evening backups of the last two months.
* Scope of the data to be backed up The easiest way is to specify partitions or directories that are taken into account during regular data backup. A suitable differentiation can increase the clarity and save effort and costs. Example: self-created files and individual configuration files
* Storage media (depending on the amount of data) Examples: tapes, cassettes, CDs or DVDs, hard disks
* Previous deletion of the volumes before reuse (eg for tapes or cassettes)
* Responsibility for implementation (administrator, user)
* Responsibility for the monitoring of the backup, especially in the case of automatic execution (error messages, remaining space on the storage media)
* Documentation of the created backups (date, method of execution of the backup as well as selected parameters, labeling of the data carriers)


Because of the large amount of money, complete backups can usually be done at least once a day. The data created since the last backup can not be restored. Therefore, and to reduce costs, differential or incremental fuses should be regularly performed between the full backups. Information on the different types of backups can be found in M 6.35 Defining the procedure for data backup.

A differential or incremental backup can occur more frequently, for example immediately after the creation of important files or several times a day. Compatibility with ongoing operations must be ensured.

For software used, it must be decided separately whether it must be recorded by the regular data backup. This depends, for example, on how complex a new installation and the importing of patches and updates is. Under certain circumstances it is sufficient to make backup copies of the original data carriers.

It has to be tested regularly whether the data backup works as desired, especially if backed up data can be played back without any problems.

All users should be informed about the data protection rules in order to be able to point out any inadequacies (for example, too little time interval for their needs) or to make individual additions (for example, interim mirroring of important data on the own plate). Also, informing the user about how long the data is re-playable is important. For example, if there are only two generations of weekly full backup, depending on the time of the loss, only two to three weeks remain to re-record.

If only the server disks are backed up in networked computers, it must be ensured that the data to be backed up are regularly transferred by the users or automatically transferred there. In the case of major changes to IT systems or in the information network, the data backup process must be adapted accordingly.

Confidential data should be encrypted as far as possible before the backup, whereby care must be taken that decryption must be possible even after a longer period of time (see M 6.56 Data backup when using cryptographic procedures).

The printout of data on paper is not an adequate way of securing data.



