#M 6.68 Efficiency review of the management system for handling security incidents
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, auditor

The management system for the handling of security incidents must be checked regularly for its timeliness and effectiveness. In addition, the measures formulated therein should be regularly tested to see if they

* known to the employees concerned,
* Under stress, so also in a security incident, which has a disorderly running operation result, and
* can be integrated into the operating procedure.


In order to test the effectiveness, it should be checked by means of simulated damage events whether the specified course of action is adhered to or can be complied with at all. If he is not, appropriate changes must be made.

Both announced and unannounced exercises can be carried out for this purpose.

In any unannounced exercises, no action whatsoever may be taken which could result in any unproblematic or difficult to repair damage to IT systems, data or otherwise. Likewise, business processes and IT operations should be impaired as little as possible.

It should be considered very carefully before the beginning of each exercise, who will be informed in advance about it. It is always important to ensure that the exercise is authorized by the authorities or management. Sometimes it may be useful not to inform certain groups of people, eg. the maintainers or the administrators. But it should be ensured that the situation remains under control. So it should be avoided that z. B. Police or fire department alarmed or all network connections of the authority or the enterprise are cut off.



## Examples 
* Call your company or agency telephone switchboard and identify yourself as a computer expert who has discovered a vulnerability in your internal network that might allow intruders to invade. Alternatively, you can pretend to be a journalist who wants to be informed that a hacker has broken into the internal network and has copied sensitive data. It is also possible to call employees who are typically referred to in such cases, such as the spokesman or the IT supervisor. Such a call should show whether internal panic breaks out or whether the targeted actions are taken that would be adequate in such a case.
* On any given day, it would be possible to test all actions and reporting routines to be performed during a computer virus infection. Not necessarily all participants have to be informed in advance, but at the moment when they are integrated into the chain of action.




