Table of content

[toc]
 
G 0.32 Abuse of permissions
====================================

Depending on their roles and tasks, people will be granted access, access and access privileges. In this way, on the one hand, the access to information should be controlled and controlled, and on the other hand, it should enable people to do certain tasks. For example, people or groups require specific permissions to run applications or edit information.

Abuse of privileges occurs when intentionally or unlawfully acquired opportunities outside the intended scope are used. The goal is often to gain personal benefits or harm an institution or certain individuals.

In not infrequently, individuals have higher or more extensive access, access, or access rights than they need for their work for historical, technical, or other reasons. These rights may be abused for attacks.

Examples:

* The more granularly the access rights to information are designed, the greater the care required to keep these authorizations up to date. Therefore, there is a risk that when granting access rights too little is differentiated between the different roles, thereby facilitating the misuse of the authorizations.
* In some applications, access permissions or passwords are stored in system areas that other users can access. This could allow attackers to change permissions or read passwords.
* People with too much privileges could be tempted to access foreign files, for example, to view a foreign email because certain information is urgently needed.
