#B 1.1 Organization
## Description 
This module identifies general and interdisciplinary organizational measures that are required as standard organizational measures to achieve a minimum level of protection. Special measures of an organizational nature, which are directly related to other measures (eg LAN administration), are listed in the corresponding building blocks. Standard safety measures geared to the proper management of IT components (hardware or software) are contained in module B 1.9 Hardware and Software Management.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

A minimum level of protection can only be achieved in an institution if comprehensive rules on information security are set in a binding manner. For this purpose, a series of measures must be implemented, beginning with the definition and allocation of responsible persons for individual objects (eg information, business processes, applications, IT components) and corresponding organizational instructions up to and including treatment of valuable resources. The steps that should be taken in the sense of a continuous information security process and the actions that should be followed in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
For the initiation and implementation of the processes resulting from the security objectives and security guidelines, organizational and personnel requirements must be met. Where appropriate, the co-determination rights of the Staff Committee must be maintained (see M 2.40 Timely participation of the Personnel / Works Council). The different organizational levels and the persons involved need concrete instructions and responsibilities to handle the processes that affect them (see M .2.225 Assignment of responsibility for information, applications and IT components).

The strategic considerations are to be detailed in an operational concept with regard to their implementation in the company or in the authorities.

The use of the required equipment must be coordinated with the task fulfillment and the safety requirements and must be documented by means of resource management (see M 2.2 Equipment Management). This must be complete and kept up-to-date by appropriate processes.

The prerequisite for a functioning infrastructure, which can also respond adequately to malfunctions, are regulations for the procurement of spare parts, repairs and maintenance work (see M 2.4 Regulations for maintenance and repair work). In maintenance contracts, the scheduling and content maintenance of individual IT systems (or groups) is mandatory, as well as the required access (remote, on-site) and the reaction times of the staff assigned to maintain the safety requirements.

The task distribution and the functions required for this (see M 2.5 Task distribution and separation of functions) should be structured in such a way that operational and controlling functions are distributed to different persons in order to minimize or completely eliminate conflicts of interest among the persons involved.



###business
The defined conceptions are made into concrete instructions and bindingly adopted for operation. Employee-related regulations must consider the complete career of an employee in the institution from entry to exit. By applying the need-to-know principle and the four-eyes principle, it must be ensured that authorizations at the various levels (eg access to rooms, access to information systems) are purposefully allocated and also practicable (see M 2.6 Assignment of access authorizations and M 2.7 assignment of access authorizations).

These authorizations must be documented and supported by various methods, such as eg. controlled and verifiable output of keys only to authorized persons, authentication of access, access control systems for specially secured areas and control of actions by external parties (see M 2.16 Supervision or assistance of third parties). The assignment of persons or groups of people to roles facilitates the management of authorizations (see M 2.8 Assignment of access rights). If regulations are consciously or unconsciously violated, the information and escalation processes derived from this must be known to the employees, so that a targeted reaction to the violation can take place (see M 2.39 Reaction to violations of the security specifications).



###segregation
Dispose of data carriers, operating and technical equipment subject to special protection conditions in such a way that no conclusions can be drawn on their use or contents (see M 2.13. Proper disposal of valuable materials resources). For this purpose, appropriate regulations, if necessary also with external companies, have to be made. Corresponding provisions of data protection must be observed.

The following is an introduction to the organization area:



