#B 1.2 Personnel
## Description 
This module explains the higher-level IT-Grundschutz measures that should be performed as standard in the Human Resources department. Starting with the hiring of employees to their departure, a variety of measures is required. Also for dealing with external parties, such as. Visitors or maintenance technicians must have adequate safety measures in place. Personnel recommendations that are tied to a specific function, such as the appointment of the system administrator of a LAN are listed in the modules that deal with the respective topic.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

A number of measures have to be implemented for the personnel working in a company or an authority, starting with the regular training of new employees, through training, right up to the regular retirement of an employee. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###implementation
The company or the authority must make existing regulations and instructions known to new employees (see M 3.1 Regulated training / briefing of new employees), so that they can be integrated promptly into the existing processes. It is also essential to inform all employees about changes in these regulations and their specific effects on a process or on the individual employee. Particularly in the case of safety-critical operating environments, it is advisable to oblige the employees accordingly and to have the trustworthiness of employees confirmed (see M 3.33 Security check of employees). Special emphasis must be placed on the trustworthiness of persons with special functions and authorizations (see M 3.10 Selection of a trusted administrator and representative).



###business
The motivation of all employees to accept information security in the operating processes and also to implement it on their own responsibility must be motivated by appropriate training (see M 3.5 Training on safety measures) and by detailed knowledge of the applications (see M 3.4 Training before program use) at the technical level and be promoted. Here, the training of the administration and maintenance staff (see M 3.11 Training of maintenance and administration personnel) is of particular importance, since this group of persons carries a high degree of responsibility due to its far-reaching rights in dealing with IT.

In order to achieve continuous availability of important processes, it must be ensured that key positions are always filled, if required by the processes (see M 3.3 substitution regulations).

Communication problems, personal problems, a bad working environment, far-reaching organizational changes and the like are also factors that can lead to security risks. For such cases, confidants and contact points should be established (see M 3.7 point of contact for personal problems).



###Funktionsnderungen
For employees who leave the institution or perform other functions, existing regulations must be implemented with greater diligence (see M 3.6 Regulated procedure when leaving employees). In the case of employees leaving the company at short notice, there may be a potential risk that unauthorized access to confidential information or the subsequent deliberate manipulation of facilities, IT systems or data will be noticed.

The following is a description of the personnel measures:



