#B 1.0 Security Management
## Description 
The secure processing of information is of vital importance for almost all companies and authorities today. This information can be stored both on paper, in computers or in heads. For the protection of the information, it is not sufficient to use only technical security solutions. An appropriate level of security can only be achieved and maintained through the planned and organized action of all stakeholders. Prerequisite for the meaningful implementation and success control of security measures is a systematic approach. This planning, steering and control task is referred to as information security management or also briefly as IS management.

The term information security is more comprehensive than the term IT security and is increasingly used because of this. However, since most of the literature still contains the term IT security, it is still used in this and in other publications of the IT-Grundschutz, but the texts are being successively aligned more closely with the consideration of information security.

A functioning security management must be embedded in the existing management structures of each institution. Therefore, it is virtually impossible to specify an organizational structure for security management directly applicable to each institution. Rather, adjustments to specific circumstances will often be required.

This module is intended to show how well-functioning information security management can be set up and further developed during operation. He describes meaningful steps in a systematic security process and gives instructions for creating a comprehensive security concept. The module builds on the BSI Standard 100-1 Information Security Management Systems and BSI Standard 100-2 Approach to IT Baseline Protection and summarizes the key aspects of security management.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

In the context of security management, a series of measures are to be implemented, beginning with the conception over the development of suitable organizational structures up to the regular revision. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below. One of the cornerstones for achieving an adequate level of security is that the management level is behind the security objectives and aware of its responsibility for information security. The management level must initiate, control and monitor the security process so that it is implemented in the organization in all areas (see M 2.336 assuming overall responsibility for information security by the management level).

Furthermore, a continuous security process must be established and a security strategy appropriate for the respective institution must be defined (see M 2.335 Definition of security objectives and strategy). The management level must designate a person as the main person responsible for all other security issues. The latter is responsible for establishing and maintaining an appropriate information security organizational structure (see M 2.193 Setting up an appropriate information security organizational structure). As one of the first actions, an information security guideline should be drawn up (see M 2.192 Creation of an information security guideline).

Information security must be practiced in all areas of the institution (see M 2.337 Integrating information security into organizational processes and processes). In addition to the development of a security concept (see M 2.195 Creation of a security concept), this also includes the integration of the employees into the security process (see M 2.197 Integration of the employees in the security process) and the creation of security policies that are appropriate for the target group (see M 2.338 Creation of targeted security policies).

The following section presents the measure of safety management.



