#B 1.8 Treatment of security incidents
## Description 
In order to maintain information security during operation, it is necessary to design and implement the handling of security incidents (Security Incident Handling or Security Incident Response) in advance. A security incident is an unwanted event that has an impact on information security and can result in serious damage. Typical consequences of security incidents may be the exploitation, manipulation or destruction of data. To prevent or limit damage, security incidents must be dealt with quickly and efficiently. If this can be based on a predetermined and proven method, reaction times can be minimized.

The focus of this module is on the handling of security incidents from the point of view of information technology. Despite this clear separation from other security precautions, there are also interfaces to prefetches in other areas when handling security incidents.

A special area of ??the treatment of security incidents is emergency management (see module B 1.3 Emergency Management). In the context of emergency management, the failure of critical components is specifically analyzed in advance for business-relevant processes, areas and IT systems, risk-minimizing measures are planned and a procedure for maintaining or restoring availability is defined.

Typical security incidents are, for example

* Misconfigurations leading to the disclosure of confidential data, loss of integrity of protected data or loss of data,
* Occurrence of security gaps in hardware or software components due to inherent errors,
* Occurrence of malware or
* Criminal acts (such as hacking of Internet servers, burglary in IT systems, theft of data, sabotage or blackmail with IT relation).


Such Sicherheitsvorfle can be triggered, for example by

* the misconduct of users, administrators or external service providers, which leads to safety-critical changes of system parameters and violates internal guidelines or instructions,
* Violation of access rights,
* made changes to software, hardware or infrastructure or
* Insufficient protection of vulnerable rooms and buildings.


All types of safety precautions must be handled appropriately. This applies both to such security incidents against which the institution can concretely appeal, such as eg. Computer viruses, as well as those that hit the institution unexpectedly, such as a water pipe break.

This module shows a systematic way of creating a concept for handling security incidents and ensuring its implementation and embedding within a company or a public authority. The effort to create and implement such a concept is not small.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

To set up an effective system to handle security incidents, there are a number of steps to take and action to take.



###Planning and conception
First, a procedure and organizational structures for the treatment of security incidents must be established (see M 6.58 Establishment of a procedure for the treatment of security incidents). It is to be regulated who has the responsibility for the occurrence of security incidents (see M 6.59 Definition of responsibilities for security incidents).

In addition to defining the roles, responsibilities and codes of conduct, stakeholders must properly understand their effects and report incidents immediately for the effective management of security incidents (see M 6.60 Establishment of security reporting channels) lle).

It is an escalation strategy to work out who should be involved in which cases (see M 6.61 escalation strategy for security incidents). It is also necessary to specify in which order the damage resulting from a security incident should be processed (see M 6.62 Defining priorities for the handling of security incidents).



###implementation
In addition to the prevention, the detection of security precautions as well as the preservation of evidence are of great importance (see M 6.67 Use of detection measures for security incidents and M 6.127 Establishment of evidence protection measures in case of security incidents) ,

For the competent treatment of security incidents, a team of experienced and trustworthy specialists should be assembled early enough (see M 6.123 Establishment of a team of experts for the treatment of security incidents).



###business
Security incidents must first be identified and recorded as such (see M 6.130 Detecting and recording security incidents), then they must be analyzed and an appropriate solution proposed (see M 6.131 Qualifying and Evaluate security incidents and MM 6.64 fix security issues). The measures for remedying security incidents must be suitably monitored and controlled (see M 6.133 Restoring the operating environment after security incidents and M 6.66 Postprocessing of security incidents).

The following is a description of the measures for the treatment of security incidents.



