#B 1.14 Patch and change management
## Description 
The task of change management is to make changes in applications, infrastructure, documentation, processes and procedures controllable and controllable. Particularly in the field of information technology, many authorities and companies are faced with the challenge of correctly and promptly adopting the necessary innovations in the components of their system landscape due to the ever-accelerating development and the increasing demands of users.

Experiences in authorities and companies show that safety gaps or malfunctions during operation are often due to incorrect or not made changes. Missing or neglected patch or change management quickly leads to gaps in the security of the individual components and thus possible attack points.

This module shows how a functioning patch and change management can be set up in an institution, how the corresponding process for patch and change management can be controlled and optimized, so that disruptions during operation are avoided and security gaps are minimized and be removed promptly. The descriptions concentrate on the IT operation, but can also be implemented analogously in other business processes. Patch and change management refers to the task of planning and controlling changes, even if this term is sometimes used in other contexts for those who perform this task.

The effort to create and implement such a process is not small. Therefore, this module should be implemented especially for larger information networks. For smaller and less complex information networks, the implementation of M 2.221 change management may be sufficient.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

To set up an effective system to handle patches and changes, there are a number of steps to take.



###Planning and conception
Patch and change management should control and control all hardware and software changes and their configurations. To be able to record and evaluate all changes, all IT systems recorded within the patch and change management should be subordinated to this (see M 2.423 Definition of Responsibilities for Patch and Change Management). Changes to the configuration and status of the systems are now only possible via the patch and change management. This requires a corresponding delegation of responsibility by the management of the agency or the company. The organizational implementation of patch and change management represents a cross-sectional function by various departments of an institution. In particular, the IT operation, information security management and the specialist departments must be involved.

A single patch or change begins with a change request. This should first be recorded and controlled by the change manager. For this change, relevance, urgency, planned implementation (deadline, process) as well as possible risks and problems should be compiled and recorded (see M 2.421 Planning of the patch and change management process and M 2.422 dealing with change requests).

Patch and change management can be supported by technical aids, for example for the automatic distribution of software. If special tools are used for the implementation of patch and change management, it must be ensured that a concept is created for their use (see M 2.424 Security Guideline on the Use of Patch and Change Management Tools).



###procurement
There are different products that support the patch and change management process. In order to make an appropriate choice from these products, the requirements for these tools, such as which platforms to support, must be determined prior to procurement (see M 2.425 Appropriate selection of tools for the patch - and change management).



###implementation
During implementation, all IT systems managed by patch and change management should be subordinated to this individually or in groups. Furthermore, changes to these systems must be documented in a central location (see M 2.34 Documentation of the changes to an existing system).



###business
Depending on the size and complexity of a patch or a change to be made, it is recommended to define tests, control and termination points, as well as distribution priorities in a run plan. It must be ensured that the desired level of safety is maintained during and after the change. The approval and implementation of changes should be coordinated and the resources and interests of specialist departments and IT operations should be taken into account (see M 2.426 Integration of patch and change management into business processes and M 2.427 Coordination of change requests ).

For quality assurance and to detect errors or prevent future errors, every patch and every change should be evaluated after they have been played (see M 2.429 Measuring the success of change requests).

Changes, in particular software updates, can be made manually, but also with the help of suitable tools. When using these tools, it is important to ensure that they are protected against misuse and do not endanger the overall security, since they frequently work with system administrator authorizations. Tools provide the ability to make changes to many systems simultaneously. However, this also multiplies the impact of errors, so that very careful tests should be made before the change is made (see M 2.428 Scalability in Patch and Change Management). It should also be taken into account that systems to be converted may be switched off temporarily or permanently or may not be reachable. This mainly applies to mobile devices such as laptops, smartphones and PDAs (see M 4.323 Synchronization within patch and change management). In addition, the integrity and authenticity of the software used must be technically ensured during the entire patch and change management process (see M 4.177 Ensuring Integrity and Authenticity of Software Packages).

The software update mechanisms used must be considered, regardless of their operational level within the patching and modification process (see M 4.324 Configuring Auto Update Mechanisms for Patch and Change Management).



###segregation
If systems for patch and change management are suspended, they should be disposed of in a regulated manner. More detailed information can be found in M 2.13 Proper disposal of valuable equipment.



###emergency preparedness
For emergency preparedness, the individual emergency plans of the applications and IT systems managed by patch and change management must be taken into account (see B 1.3 Emergency Management). As patch and change management contributes to the technical implementation of security in the institution, appropriate technical redundancy and backup systems should be provided to counteract a non-compensable failure. Furthermore, representative rules are of particular importance in order to maintain the decision-making and approval process.



