#B 1.16 Requirements Management
## Description 
In every institution there are legal, contractual, structural and internal guidelines and guidelines that have to be observed from various angles. Many of them have a direct or indirect impact on information security management. The requirements vary depending on industry, country and other conditions. For example, a public authority is subject to other external regulations than a stock corporation. The management level of the institution must ensure compliance with the requirements by means of appropriate monitoring measures (New German: Compliance).

The aim of requirements management is to have an overview of the various requirements of the individual areas of the institution at all times and to identify and implement suitable measures to avoid violating these requirements.

This task is typically transferred to an employee. The role is called Request Manager below. In some companies z. B. also used the term Compliance Manager. Unless otherwise required, no new posts need to be created for this purpose. The task can be taken over, for example, by security management, auditing, controlling or the legal department.

Depending on the size of an institution, it may have different management processes that deal with different aspects of risk management, such as: Security management, data protection management, requirements management, controlling. They should work together in a spirit of trust in order to exploit synergy effects and to resolve conflicts in the short term.

This module looks at selected requirements that impact the design of information security in the institution.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

Within the framework of requirements management, a series of measures has to be implemented, beginning with the conception over the development of suitable organizational structures up to the regular revision. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Processes and organizational structures should be established in order to ensure an overview of the various requirements (see M 2.439 Conception and Organization of Requirements Management). In addition to the external regulations affecting the institution, the internal guidelines and requirements must also be defined and transparent. An important basis for adequately securing all business-relevant information, business processes and systems is the classification of their protection requirements (see M 2.217 Careful classification and handling of information, applications and systems). As a result, concrete security specifications for these objects are derived.



###implementation
The identified requirements are implemented through the management processes of the institution, in particular through the security process. Employees, as well as visitors and external service providers, must be made aware of their duty of care in handling information and IT systems before they have access to or access to them (see M 3.2 Obligation of employees to comply with applicable laws, regulations and regulations ).



###business
The security requirements that the institution has set for meeting the requirements must be adhered to on a permanent basis. This should be checked regularly (see M 2.199 Maintaining information security). Both the own regulations and the legal framework to which an institution is subject can change. This must be taken into account in the framework of requirements management (see M 2.340 compliance with legal framework conditions).

In the following the measures for the area Requirements Management are presented.



