#B 1.6 Protection against malicious programs
## Description 
Each institution should put together appropriate preventative measures against malicious programs and regulate the procedure in case of malware infection. In addition to the classic computer viruses, malicious programs also include Trojan horses, computer worms and other software that causes damage. As a basis for preventing malware intrusion into IT systems, a security plan against malicious programs should be developed. One hundred percent safety is also not possible when protecting against malicious programs. Aware of the residual risk, measures must be taken to prevent the ingress of malicious programs. If a preventive defense was not successful, the malicious program should at least be detected as early as possible. In addition, in this block measures are named, which serve the damage reduction, if a malicious program could not be discovered in time. What is essential is the consistent application of the measures and the constant updating of the technical methods used. This requirement is justified by the daily occurrence of malicious programs or by constantly new variations of known malicious programs. The further development of operating systems, programming languages ??and application programs regularly creates new attack potentials for malicious programs, so that appropriate countermeasures must be initiated in good time.

In order to achieve effective protection against malicious programs for an entire organization, the procedure for creating and implementing a corresponding security concept is explained in this module. Specific recommended measures to protect against malicious programs for individual IT systems can be found in the system-specific components.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

When creating a security concept against malware (see M 2.154 Creating a security concept against malicious programs), it must first be determined which of the existing or planned IT systems are to be included in the security concept. For these IT systems, the factors influencing the implementation of security measures must be considered. Based on this, the technical and organizational measures can then be selected. In particular, the selection of suitable technical countermeasures, such as the use of virus protection programs, must be taken into account (see M 2.157 Selection of a suitable virus protection program). In addition to the establishment of a reporting system (see M .2.158 Reporting of malicious program infections) and a coordination of the updating of used protection products (see M 2.159 Updating the virus protection programs and signatures used), a number of regulations apply to the implementation of the concept arrange.

The most important preventive measures against damage caused by malware are the use of virus protection programs and regular backups (see M 6.32 Regular backup).

The following is a description of the malware protection measure:



