#B 1.7 Crypto Concept
## Description 
This module describes a procedure for how, in a heterogeneous environment, both the locally stored data and the data to be transmitted can be effectively protected by cryptographic methods and techniques. It describes how and where in a heterogeneous environment cryptographic methods and the corresponding components can be used. Since cryptographic methods require a large number of complex influencing factors, a crypto concept should be created for this purpose.

This module therefore describes how a crypto concept can be created. Starting with the identification of requirements and the determination of influencing factors, the selection of suitable cryptographic solutions and products, as well as the sensitization and training of users and the crypto-emergency preparedness.

This block can also be used if only one cryptographic product is to be selected for one of the possible fields of application. Then some of the steps described below can be omitted and only the parts relevant for the respective field of application can be processed.

For the implementation of this module, an elementary understanding of the basic cryptographic mechanisms should be available. An overview of cryptographic basic concepts can be found in M 3.23 Introduction to Cryptographic Basic Terms.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

In addition, in the field of cryptographic methods, essentially the following steps are to be carried out:

Development of a crypto concept

The use of cryptographic methods is determined by a large number of influencing factors. The IT system, the volume of data, the desired level of security and the availability requirements are some of these factors. Therefore, a concept should first be developed in which all factors and decision criteria for the choice of a concrete cryptographic process and the corresponding products are taken into account and which at the same time is economically justifiable from a cost point of view (see M 2.161 Development a crypto concept).

Determination of the requirements for the cryptographic methods

A catalog of requirements must be drawn up describing the factors and decision criteria that underlie the use of cryptographic methods (see M 2.162 Needs assessment for the use of cryptographic methods and products and M 2.163 Survey of influencing factors f Kr cryptographic procedures and products). Cryptographic methods can be used on the different layers of the ISO / OSI layer model. Depending on the requirements or dangers, the use on certain layers is recommended (see also M 4.90 Use of cryptographic methods on the various layers of the ISO / OSI reference model.

Selection of a suitable cryptographic product

Once all the framework conditions have been determined, a product must be selected that offers the security functionality described in the crypto concept (see M 2.165 Selection of a suitable cryptographic product). Such a product, called crypto module for short in the following, can consist of hardware, software, firmware or of a combination thereof as well as the components necessary for carrying out the crypto processes, such as memories, processors, buses, power supply, etc. A crypto module can be used to protect sensitive data or information in various computer or telecommunication systems.

Appropriate use of the cryptomodule

Even during operation, a number of security requirements for a crypto module must be set. In addition to the security of the data to be protected by the crypto module, it is also important to protect the crypto module itself against direct attacks and external influences (see M 2.166 Regulation of the use of crypto modules).

The safety requirements for the IT systems on which the cryptographic methods are used can be found in the respective system-specific components. When selecting and using crypto modules, the module B 3.407 Embedded system should also be considered.

emergency preparedness

For emergency precautions include:

* the data backup when using cryptographic methods (see M 6.56 data backup when using cryptographic methods), ie the backup of the keys, the configuration data of the products used, the encrypted data,
* the gathering of information as well as the reaction to security gaps.


The package of measures for the crypto concept section is presented below. A repetition of measures of other components is omitted here.



