#B 1.3 Emergency Management
## Description 
The burning of a data center or office building, substantial personnel breakdown due to a pandemic, flooding, widespread, prolonged power failure or even minor issues such as the failure of a server, an outsourcing service provider or the Internet lead to significant disruptions or even cancellations of business processes, which result in enormous damage. In order to prevent emergencies and crises for the institution, it is necessary to set up and operate an emergency management process. Only a planned and organized procedure guarantees optimal emergency preparedness and emergency management. This reduces the likelihood of an emergency or crisis occurring and the impact on occurrence, thus ensuring the survival of the institution. Appropriate preventive measures must be taken which, on the one hand, increase the robustness and reliability of the business processes and, on the other hand, enable a quick and targeted response in an emergency or a crisis. The emergency management is also called operational continuity management.

An emergency is a damage event in which essential processes or resources of an institution do not function as intended. Emergencies are characterized by the fact that the availability of the corresponding processes or resources can not be restored within a required time and the business operations are severely impaired. Emergencies that affect the continuity of business processes can escalate and become a crisis. A crisis is understood to mean a sudden emergency in which the existence of the institution or the life and health of individuals is endangered.

Emergency management encompasses the areas of emergency preparedness with preventive measures to prevent emergencies and crises as well as the planning of emergency management with the re-establishment of business processes and systems (in English Disaster Recovery Planning). The emergency management includes Contingency Planning and Crisis Management to cope with the emergency or crisis. The aim of emergency management is to ensure that important business processes are not or only temporarily interrupted, even in critical situations, and that the economic existence of the institution remains secure even in the event of a major loss event. A holistic view is therefore crucial. It is important to consider all aspects that are required to continue the critical business processes when a damage event occurs, not just the resources information and information technology. IT emergency management, emergency management in the context and as a sub-task of security management, has the main goal of the business continuity by ensuring the availability of IT services, applications, IT systems and in particular the information to guarantee. IT Emergency Management (IT Service Management) is part of holistic emergency management and should not be considered in isolation.

Effective emergency management must be embedded in the existing management structures of each institution. This module therefore provides general recommendations for organizational structures for emergency management. These must be individually adapted to the specific circumstances of each institution.

This module is intended to show how well-functioning emergency management can be set up in a public agency or a company and further developed during operation. He describes the essential steps in a systematic emergency management process and gives instructions for the preparation of a comprehensive emergency concept. The building block is based on the BSI standard 100-4 emergency management and summarizes the most important aspects of emergency management.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For the establishment of an emergency management process, a series of measures have to be implemented, starting with a strategic planning through the analysis of the relevant business processes up to concrete measures for the resources, which are assigned to these processes , The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
One of the cornerstones of the success of emergency management is that management is committed to the goals of emergency management and is aware of its responsibility. The management level must initiate, steer and control the emergency management process so that it is also implemented in all areas within the institution (see M 6.111 Guideline on Emergency Management and assuming overall responsibility by the management level). Furthermore, a continuous safety process must be established and an appropriate emergency management strategy must be defined for the respective institution (see M 6.110 Defining the Scope and the Emergency Management Strategy).



###implementation
The management level must designate a chief responsible for emergency management from the management level, as well as a person responsible for all matters and emergency management issues, an emergency officer. The latter is responsible for establishing and maintaining an appropriate emergency management organizational structure (see M 6.112 Setting up a suitable organizational structure for emergency management).



###business
Emergency management must be practiced in all areas of the institution (M 6.116 Integration of emergency management into organizational processes and processes). In addition to the drafting of an emergency concept (see M 6.114 Creation of an emergency concept), this also includes the integration of the employees in the emergency management process (see M 6.115 Integration of the employees in the emergency management process).

In the following the measures for emergency management are presented.



