#B 1.9 Hardware and Software Management
## Description 
In order to achieve the necessary and desired degree of security for the entire IT organization, it is not sufficient to secure only the individual IT components. Rather, it is necessary to design all processes and processes that affect these IT systems in such a way that the desired level of information security is achieved and maintained. It is therefore necessary to introduce and maintain regulations for all these procedures, which ensure the effectiveness of the safety measures.

The focus of this module is on regulations that relate specifically to IT hardware or software components, with the aim of ensuring a proper IT operation in terms of management or organization. Security should be an integral part of the entire lifecycle of an IT system or product.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

An information network consists of a large number of IT components that should initially be safeguarded as individual components in accordance with the proposed measures from the corresponding modules. To ensure that the same level of security is achieved for all IT components used, uniform regulations should be specified by the hardware and software management.

As part of the hardware and software management, regardless of the type of IT components used, a number of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the conception, from procurement to operation. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Aspects of information security must be incorporated into the strategic direction and procurement of IT systems early on, as they have very concrete effects on the performance of tasks and the course of business processes. Here, the defined security requirements for the existing IT systems as well as the requirements from the planned deployment scenarios must be consolidated (see M 2.214 Concept of IT operations).

The procurement and use of hardware and software require specific regulations for the different users.

In this case, the security parameters of the IT systems required for a secure business process must be made transparent to the users (see M 2.223 Security requirements for the use of standard software). Despite intensive training, users have to be supported in a targeted and timely manner in terms of functionality of the programs and security as well as in the event of problems occurring (see M 2.12 Support and advice for IT users). For this purpose, user support and help desks have to be set up.

The measures necessary for the safe operation of all IT components must be defined in a security guideline. Compliance with the safety level specified therein requires not only the technical measures but also a comprehensive set of rules for the user, which provides this assistance and a binding and precise guidance. Potential risk factors and vulnerabilities such as passwords, external personnel, unapproved IT components, access to the IT systems must be minimized through organizational regulations or through a combination of organizational and technical measures (see M 2.11 Password usage regulation) become. Users must be regularly sensitized to the careful handling of safety-critical information and IT components.

The efficient and secure operation of heterogeneous networks requires strict guidelines for testing, installing and documenting new hardware and software (see M 2.216 Approval Process for IT Components), as well as efficient user management (see M 2.30 Rule for Setting Up Users / User groups). The physical access to IT systems as well as the authentication of the users against the applications and systems (see M 2.220 Guidelines for access control) should in principle be carried out in compliance with the need-to-know principle ,

The use of external data media can pose a high security risk, since alleged security barriers can often be easily undone. Regulations of use, marking and tests z. B. Malware for CD-ROMs, memory sticks, and other devices that can be connected via USB for data exchange are also used to maintain secure IT operations (see M 2.3 Disk Management).

The task of change management is to subject changes to the current configurations to a formal documentation and release process (see M 2.221 Change Management). Safety-critical aspects have to be evaluated as well as the implementation according to the four-eyes principle and the current documentation of the changes. This also means that only approved components may be used, as otherwise controllable operation is not possible (see M 2.9 Use of non-approved hardware and software).



###procurement
For the procurement of IT systems, the requirements resulting from the concept must be formulated for the respective products and the selection of suitable products must be made based on this. The formal approval of a new product (see M 2.62 Software Acceptance and Release Procedure) should be preceded by a functional check and a consistency check with regard to the required safety features (see M 4.65 Testing New Hardware and Software).



###implementation
The implementation of the safety guideline for operation requires specifications for security measures during the installation and first configuration (see M 4.135 Restrictive assignment of access rights to system files) as well as for the ongoing operation of the IT systems.

The structured data management with consistent separation of program and work files (see M 2.138 Structured Data Management) should be based on a largely uniform configuration of the systems. This in turn supports a centrally executable system administration (see M 2.69 Establishment of standard workplaces).

Ensuring consistent system administration - even during downtimes such as sick leave or vacation - can be achieved through appropriate representation arrangements (see M 2.26 Appointment of an administrator and a representative). The competences of the representative must be made transparent.

The documentation of the system configuration must be up-to-date and understandable and should be tool-supported (see M 2.25 Documentation of the system configuration). In addition to the physical IT components, the logical network structures as well as the roles and access rights must be documented.



###business
Through the system administration the ongoing operation with different priorities is to be maintained. The changes in the IT portfolio required by migration, downtime and new acquisition (see M4.78 Careful implementation of configuration changes) must be updated promptly after they have been released in the IT Inventory (see M 2.34 Documentation of the changes to an existing system and M 2.219 Continuous documentation of information processing).

Continuous observation and evaluation of the operation (see M 2.10 Checking the hardware and software inventory and M 2.64 Checking the log files) for conformity and possible security breaches as well as the execution of the corresponding security measures (see M .2.215 error handling) require a permanent acquisition of information about corresponding updates of the different manufacturers (see M 2.35 Gathering information about security gaps in the system). By applying the necessary security patches, the required security should also be achieved preventively (see M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates).



###segregation
When decommissioning IT systems, it must be ensured that important data is not lost but saved before the IT systems are handed over or scrapped (see M 4.234 Regulated take-down of IT systems and IT systems) Data media). However, it is even more important to subsequently delete the data carriers of these systems as thoroughly as possible (see B .1.15 Deleting and destroying data), so that afterwards unauthorized persons can not gain access to sensitive data usually after the screening there is no control over what will happen to the IT systems.

The following is a description of the range of measures for hardware and software management:



