#B 1.17 Cloud Usage
## Description 
With cloud services, institutions can use IT infrastructure (eg computing power, storage capacity), IT platforms (eg databases, application servers) or IT applications (eg order management, groupware) according to their specific needs as a service via a network. The service can be provided both in the client's premises and in an external cloud service provider.

The need-based, scalable, and flexible use of IT services that is enabled in this way is supported by innovative business models, in which billing can take place depending on the range of functions, the duration of use, and the number of users.

Not least because of the mentioned properties, cloud computing (for definition purposes, see M 4.462 introduction to cloud usage) has been enjoying increasing popularity for several years. Numerous studies confirm the growing demand for cloud services and predict that they will continue to do so in the future.

In practice, however, it is often the case that the benefits that organizations expect from using the cloud are often not fully realized because the critical success factors that are critical in this regard have not been adequately addressed. The following aspects are of particular importance in the context of cloud use by institutions:

* Strategic planning of the use of cloud services
* Careful definition and agreement of (security) requirements
* Careful definition of responsibilities and interfaces, both within an institution and externally
* Awareness of a required changed role understanding, both on the part of users and on the part of users


In addition, the introduction of cloud services plays an important role in a range of governance issues. Examples include the implementation of client capability, contract design, ensuring the portability of different services, the billing of used services, the monitoring of service provision, the incident management and numerous data protection aspects.

Thematic delimitation

In the sense of the IT-Grundschutz approach, cloud use includes all aspects required to use a cloud environment. This includes cloud use in particular both the application of the cloud service by employees of the using institution and the administration of the cloud service by a cloud service administrator on the part of the using institution.

The aim of this module is to provide recommendations for the secure use of cloud services. It is therefore aimed at all institutions that already use cloud services or plan their future deployment. The dangers and measures of the module basically apply regardless of the service and deployment model used.

The building block is designed so that it is always applicable to a specific cloud service. If an institution uses an aggregation of cloud services, each individual service must be modeled using the building block (see M 2.545 Modeling Cloud Usage). The resulting interface between the different services is also the subject of the module. It must be considered for all services.

The building block cloud usage is closely related to the module B 1.11 Outsourcing. In almost all deployment models, apart from the use of a private cloud on-premise, the use of cloud services is a special form of outsourcing. The hazards and measures described in the cloud usage module are therefore often also used in outsourcing applied. However, the use of cloud services is characterized by a number of peculiarities that can be found in specific building blocks and countermeasures exclusively in this building block.

The focus of the present module is on organizational and technical measures, the implementation of which counteracts the identified specific dangers. The measures described focus primarily on cloud-specific aspects. In addition, by implementing the above measures, institutions will be able to take due account of the critical success factors for cloud usage described above.

Security measures, which are used to secure the provision of cloud services, are not the subject of the module, but are described in the module B 5.23 Cloud Management. Dangers and specific security measures which are to be regarded as relevant through the connection of a cloud service via corresponding interfaces (API Application Programming Interface) are likewise not considered in the cloud usage module. Please refer to the module B 5.24 Web-Services.



## Countermeasures 
In order to secure an information network, further building blocks have to be implemented in addition to this building block, according to the results of the modeling after IT-Grundschutz.

All aspects that are the responsibility of the cloud service provider are covered by this module. If your own IT role is taken over by the cloud service provider, for example, in connection with the use of a private cloud on-premise, you must use the cloud management component in addition to the Cloud usage component.

If the administration of the cloud service by the cloud service administrator takes place on the side of the using institution via a management software that uses web services, the module B 5.24 is also to use web services.

Further guidance on modeling when using cloud services can be found in the measure M 2.545 Modeling Cloud Usage.



###Planning and conception
The decision of an institution to use cloud services is strategic. Therefore, relevant economic, technical and organizational constraints as well as security-related aspects should be considered and incorporated into the creation of a Cloud Usage Strategy. The measure M 2.534 Creation of a Cloud Usage Strategy provides further assistance in this regard.

Once the cloud usage strategy has been determined, concrete security requirements for implementation within the institution emerge. These should be documented in sufficiently detailed form in a security policy for cloud use (see measure M 2.535 Creation of a security policy for cloud usage).

The determined requirements of the institution with regard to security specifications, relevant interfaces and required service levels should form the basis for the service definition of the cloud service to be used. Further details can be found in the M 2.536 Service Definition for Cloud Services by the user.

If the cloud service to be used is finally defined, then extensive planning measures must be carried out in order to ensure the secure, continuous operation of cloud services. Particular attention should be paid to the planning of the secure migration (see measure M 2.537 Planning of the secure migration to a cloud service) and the planning of the secure integration of cloud services (see measure M 2.538 Planning of the Cloud) secure integration of cloud services). This action focuses on different aspects that should be considered beyond migration planning.

As part of the planned secure migration to a cloud service, the institution should create a migration concept, which should be interpreted as part of the security concept for cloud use (see measure M 2.539 Creation of a security concept for cloud use) , In doing so, different cloud-specific features and requirements have to be taken into account and presented accordingly in the migration concept.

If an organization has special requirements for a cloud service, for example with respect to the confidentiality of the information or the smooth interaction when using multiple services, additional security measures should be implemented. Here it is recommended to implement the specifications from the measures M 4.459 Use of encryption for cloud usage and M .4.461 portability of cloud services.

Also in the planning and design phase, the measures M 2.40 Timely involvement of the Personnel / Works Council and M 2.42 Determination of the possible communication partners must be observed and implemented.



###procurement
A prerequisite for the selection of a suitable cloud service provider is a requirement profile created as detailed as possible. The previously determined security requirements as well as the definition of the cloud services to be used, in combination with an executed requirement analysis, provide the basis for the preparation of a specification. This is to be compared with available or requested offers from cloud service providers. For more information on how to choose a service provider, see measure M 2.540 Careful selection of a cloud service provider that also identifies potential pitfalls.



###implementation
After selecting a cloud service provider, all relevant aspects of the cloud usage plan should be contracted and regulated. In addition to statements onIT security requirements and criteria for measuring service quality and security, the contract should also contain provisions on information, cooperation and auditing obligations. All essential aspects can be found in measure M 2.541 contract design with the cloud service provider.

As part of the implementation phase, the migration to a cloud service based on a migration concept takes place, in which requirements for the planned form of migration (test phase, pilot phase etc.) as well as the technical and organizational prerequisites for migration are specified (see measure M 2.542 Secure migration to a cloud service).



###business
In order to maintain the IT security in the ongoing cloud usage operation, documentation and guidelines must be regularly updated, as well as regular checks, coordination rounds and the planning and execution of exercises or tests. Further information can be found in the measure M 2.543 Maintaining Information Security in the Cloud Usage Operation.

In connection with the use of cloud services, the conduct of audits is considered an important measure. Practical experience has shown that the user institution can often make deviations from contractual agreements, such as non-compliance with certain service levels or the failure to comply with security specifications, transparent only in the context of audits. The measure M 2.544 Auditing for cloud use provides information on relevant aspects in the planning and execution of audits in the cloud environment.



###segregation
In order for a cloud usage ratio to be terminated in an orderly manner, ownership rights to hardware and software as well as the return of the data must be clarified by the service provider. In addition, all necessary information for the continuation of the operation of IT systems and IT applications must be sufficiently documented. Information on this can be found in the M 2.307 Orderly Termination of Outsourcing or Cloud Usage Ratio.



###emergency preparedness
An important measure for emergency preparedness is the creation of an IT emergency concept for the internal processes for cloud use (see measure M 6.155 Creating an emergency concept for a cloud service). In this, relevant organizational and technical points should be discussed.

If an institution determines that special circumstances require specially performed data backups, the requirements of measure M 6.156 Implementation of own data backups must be implemented in this context.

The following is a description of the measures for the cloud usage module.



