#B 2.5 Disk Archive
## Description 
The data carrier archive is used to store data carriers of any kind. As part of the IT Grundschutz, there are no increased requirements for the archive room with regard to fire protection. The fire protection can be realized according to the needs of the IT operator by the containers in which the data carriers are stored.

For central data archives and backup archives, the use of data protection cabinets (see module B 2.7) is recommended to support fire protection, protection against unauthorized access and the enforcement of access authorizations.

The "KB 2.5" data carrier archive is basically also suitable for paper, film or other files, even if it is not geared primarily to this application. Some recommendations in the assigned measures must then be reinterpreted accordingly.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

A number of measures have to be implemented for the data carrier archive, starting with the planning and conception up to daily operation. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
The basic structure of the data carrier archive and thus the essential boundary conditions of its use are defined in the planning and conception. Here, of course, there are greater freedoms when setting up a new building. If a data archive is to be installed in an existing building, the remaining structuring options for the use of a building are usually low, especially for rented buildings.

With the selection of the room in which the archive is housed, its protective properties are already largely fixed, and subsequent corrections such as the removal of water-bearing pipes can often only be realized with considerable effort. Necessary technical installations such as air conditioning or the use of a security alarm system should therefore be provided as early as possible when planning or selecting the data carrier archive.



###implementation
Before commissioning the data carrier archive, organizational regulations must be defined to support orderly and safe operation.



###business
During ongoing operations, it must be ensured by means of appropriate checks that the proposed regulations are actually applied in practice. This mainly means that it is ensured that only those persons who have the right to access and that the archive is completed, as long as nobody stops there.

The following is an introduction to the data medium archive section:



