#B 2.3 Office / Local Workplace
## Description 
A local workplace is the area within the institution where one or more employees are located to complete their tasks. This can be, for example, a room, a production environment or a sales area.

The tasks may consist of a wide variety of activities, which may also be partially or wholly supported by IT: preparation of documents, processing of files and lists, conducting of meetings and telephone calls, reading of files and other documents.

Because a local workstation is located within the institution, basic infrastructural security arrangements such as access control or fire safety can be assumed.

This module describes the typical dangers and measures for a local workstation.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional blocks have to be implemented in addition to this block, according to the results of the modeling after IT-Grundschutz.

A number of measures have to be implemented for local workplaces, from planning to their use. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
The measure M 1.76 The appropriate selection and use of a local workplace describes the basic design options that should be taken into account when setting up a workplace.



###procurement
In local workplaces where users can not control access themselves, ie. For example, if there are public or large office areas, anti-theft systems should be provided to protect notebooks, otherwise there is a high risk that such devices will disappear in an unguarded moment. A sufficiently bold person does not need much time to get a notebook or a smartphone and leave the room with it.



###implementation
It should also be specified for local workplaces who should be admitted under what conditions. In particular, it must be decided which areas are open to the public and which are only open to employees of the company or the authorities.



###business
The edited information must be treated carefully at the local workplace. This includes compliance with the employer's stipulations regarding the working environment and safe storage of work materials.

Taking into account the access regulations and the access protection to the building, it must also be determined whether offices are to be closed in the absence of the employees. Depending on the structural conditions, care must also be taken that access via a balcony or through an unsecured window is not possible.

The following is an introduction to the Local Workplace area:



