#B 2.11 Meeting, event and training rooms
## Description 
Meeting, event and training rooms are characterized by the fact that they

* be used by changing people or groups of people,
* be used by own staff as well as externally,
* a self-contained use of people using the same circle usually lasts only a short time, a few hours to a few days,
* brought IT systems together with their own IT to operate (eg, foreign laptop s.Bei own projector),
* The information used there is usually available locally (eg on a laptop or mobile data carrier) or can be made available from a specially set up test or training network. Sometimes there is even a connection to the LAN, so that internal institution data can be accessed.


These extremely different uses result in a dangerous situation that is hardly comparable to that of other areas. The main focus here is, in addition to the usual dangers for rooms of all kinds, the danger caused by the playfulness of persons present.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.



###Planning and conception
The scope of use of meeting, event and training rooms varies greatly. Since this also depends on the required security measures, a usage overview should first be prepared which takes into account the planned deployment scenarios (see M 2.331 planning of meeting, event and training rooms).

Appropriate premises should be selected and equipped based on the usage concept (see M 2.332 Setting up meeting, presentation and training rooms).

If LANs or the Internet are to be accessed, network access must be carefully secured in meeting, event and training rooms (see M 5.124 Network Access in Meeting, Event and Training Rooms) ).



###implementation
Security rules for meeting, event and training rooms must be defined and implemented technically and organizationally. All employees must be informed about which usage regulations have to be observed (see M 2.333 Safe use of meeting, lecture and training rooms).



###business
Also in meeting, event and training rooms, the facilities and the available technology must be handled carefully. This includes adherence to the regulations set by the institution regarding the working environment and safe storage of work materials.



###segregation
Especially in meeting, event and training rooms with frequently changing users, it is important to dispose of work materials such as data carriers and papers carefully and not just to let them lie.

The following section presents the measures for the meeting, event and training area.



