#B 2.9 Data Center
## Description 
In most institutions, all essential strategic and operational functions and tasks are supported by information technology (IT) or are even not possible without IT. The IT systems of the institution itself as well as their connection to external networks must be operated in an appropriate environment and infrastructure. This is the only way to ensure the necessary availability of IT. The performance requirements of these systems and the network environment are steadily increasing. In order to meet this demand for power, to maintain reserves and to be able to operate the IT in an economical way, authorities and companies of all sizes have concentrated their IT landscape in data centers.

The data center will be the facilities required for the operation of complex IT infrastructures (server and storage systems, systems for data protection, active network components and telecommunications systems, central printing systems, etc.) (air conditioning, electrical supply, monitoring and alarming technology) and Premises (eg computer room, rooms for the active network components, technical rooms, archive, storage, recreation room, etc.). The main difference between the data center and the server room is that in a data center a spatial separation of the IT systems and the supporting infrastructure (electrical supply, air conditioning etc.) is obligatory. As a whole, a data center should form a security area, which in itself is at least divided into the organizationally and physically separate security areas of infrastructure and IT. A data center is either permanently staffed (shift service) or there is a call readiness (with or without remote administration option) in unattended times. In a data center, due to the concentration of IT devices and data, a significantly higher level of damage can occur than with decentralized data processing. In any case, the module data center is to be used when using a large-scale system.

Subject of this module is a data center of medium type and goods. The security requirements are between those of a server room or server park and those of high-security data centers, such as those used in the banking sector. In addition to the standard security measures listed here, which have been proven in practice, in most cases, however, further individual security measures are required that take into account the specific requirements and the respective environment ( For this purpose, for example, the risk analysis based on IT-Grundschutz can be used). Threats from terrorism or force majeure are limited to the standard security measures described here.

On the one hand, the module addresses users who operate a data center and who want to check whether they have implemented suitable standard security measures in the course of a revision. On the other hand, the data center building block can also be used to provide an overview of the security measures that must be implemented when centralizing IT in a medium-sized data center for safe operation. In order to keep the module manageable, it was deliberately omitted technical details and planning reasons. The construction of a data center should not be considered by large IT departments without the help of an experienced planning staff or an experienced planning and consulting firm. When outsourcing data center services, this module can be used to test the services offered with regard to their security level.

In contrast to the protection requirements of a server room (see there), many security measures for a data center are not optional, but obligatory. These include, for example, an adequate alarm system and an alternative power supply. Conventional and proven for a secure IT operation is a fire detection in the room and raised floor of the computer room and technical rooms and possibly also an automatic extinguishing system.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

When selecting and designing a data center, a number of infrastructural and organizational measures have to be implemented, which are described in M 1.49 Technical and organizational specifications for the data center. There are different approaches to follow for certain actions, depending on whether a data center is to be set up in a new building or whether it is a rental or use of an existing building. In this second case, the possibilities for realizing adequate information security are often much more limited. The steps that should be taken in designing a data center, as well as the actions that should be followed in each step, are listed below.



###Planning and conception
The basic principle when planning a data center is the separation of coarse and fine technology. Separate rooms for the IT systems on the one hand and the supporting technology on the other hand (power distributions, UPS systems, HVAC systems, etc.) must be realized. Based on this, a series of measures for the installation of the power supply and air conditioning as well as the fire and smoke protection must ensure that adequate physical security is provided. This also means that, if possible, there should be no water-carrying lines in a data center, since leaks can cause major damage or even the failure of the entire information network. Physical protection also means that a data center in the building should be located in its own fire compartment as far as possible. It should not be visible from the outside.

As a rule, sufficient redundancies in the technical infrastructure as well as a secondary energy supply should be planned in order to enable the bridging of individual failures. By installing monitoring measures, remote indication of faults and suitable extinguishing technology, it must be ensured that possible damage is detected as early as possible and suitable measures can be initiated so quickly that the spread of damage is as low as possible.



###implementation
Only those persons who need direct access to servers and other devices installed in the data center, such as communication distributors, firewalls etc., to gain access to their tasks should be granted access to IT rooms. Access to all rooms in the security area, eg. for the maintenance of technical installations or also for the cleaning of the rooms, is to be regulated in detail so that only trustworthy staff, and this as far as possible under supervision, receives entrance. A smoking ban should be just as natural as the availability of current infrastructure and construction plans. Larger quantities of printer paper should be stored outside the data center, in a different fire compartment, to reduce the fire load.



###business
Data centers should always be locked when they are not busy. Persons who need access to the technical infrastructure, for example, for maintenance work should be accompanied in the security area. It must be ensured and regularly checked that reports of the monitoring and alarming technology are routed in such a way that a reasonably fast response can be obtained.



###emergency preparedness
Since safety measures that are not practiced do not work properly in the event of an emergency, regular fire safety measures are required, as these also help to ensure the timeliness of the alerting plan. In order to regain access to vital data quickly after major damage, they should be backed up regularly in a separate emergency archive.

The data bundle for the data center area is presented below:



