#B 2.7 Protective cabinets
## Description 
Protective cabinets are used to store data carriers of any kind or to store information technology devices (server cabinet). These protective covers are intended to protect the contents against unauthorized access and / or against the action of fire or harmful substances (eg dust). They can be used as a replacement for a server room or a data carrier archive (see blocks B 2.4 and B 2.5), if the existing spatial or organizational circumstances do not allow their own rooms. If only data carriers and inactive IT devices are to be stored, a suitable data protection cabinet based on the EN 1047-1 and EN 1047-2 standards is to be preferred.

In addition, protection cabinets can also be used in server rooms or data archives in order to increase the protective effect of the premises. They are also recommended if server in a server room from different organizational areas are set up, which should not be accessible to the other administrator.

In order to achieve protection comparable to the dedicated rooms with a protective cabinet, a series of measures is necessary, starting with the appropriate selection up to installation and use control. These are presented in the present module.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

There are a number of measures to be taken for the selection and use of safety cabinets, beginning with the planning and conception through the procurement to the point of use. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Before procuring a protective cabinet, a concept should first be drawn up based on the requirements of the planned application scenarios (see M 2.311 Planning of protective enclosures).



###procurement
The measure M 2.95 procurement of suitable protective curtains identifies the essential criteria that must be observed when selecting a protective cabinet.



###implementation
Only those persons entrusted with the corresponding technical maintenance tasks should be given access to the protective cabinet, and they should receive appropriate instruction in the operation of the protective cabinet. A smoking ban should be a matter of course for the locker room. Instructions for installing a protective cabinet are provided by the M 1.40 Appropriate installation of protective cabinets.



###business
Dungeons should always be locked when the cabinets themselves are not designed to be installed in unsafe environments. It is important to ensure that the protective cabinets are always correctly closed. Especially when using numerical keys, attention must be paid to their correct operation.

The following is a description of the range of measures for protective covers.



