#B 2.6 Space for technical infrastructure
## Description 
Infrastructures for technical infrastructure usually contain such devices and facilities that require no or only a rare operation by a human being. Typically, these will be distributors of internal supply networks (eg postal cable entry room, high-voltage supervisor room, medium-voltage supervisor room, low-voltage main distributor). Eventually, the fuses of the electrical supply will be housed in these rooms. The installation of other devices (UPS, star coupler, etc.) is conceivable. Even a network server can be accommodated here if it does not have its own room (module B 2.4 server room).



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For infrastructure, a series of measures must be implemented, from planning to ongoing operation. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
When planning infrastructure, a series of measures to install the power supply, any necessary air conditioning, and fire safety must ensure that adequate physical security is provided. This also means that after

There should be no possibility of carrying water-bearing pipes in such a, usually unoccupied, room, as leaks can cause greater damage or even the failure of the entire information network. In the case of increased security requirements, infrastructure spaces should also be protected against forced entry by specially secured doors and windows, as they are often preferred targets for attack.



###implementation
Only those persons entrusted with the corresponding technical maintenance tasks should be given access to an infrastructure room and smoking ban should be a matter of course.



###business
Rooms for the technical infrastructure should in principle always be closed if the devices installed there are not locked in cabinets in such a way that no unauthorized use is possible.

The following is a description of the range of measures for technical infrastructure space:



