#B 3,203 laptop
## Description 
A laptop or notebook is understood to mean a PC which, because of its design, is transport-friendly and can be used on the move. A laptop has a more compact design than a workstation and can be operated temporarily over batteries independent of external power supply. It has a hard disk and usually also other storage devices such as floppy disk, CD-ROM or DVD drives as well as interfaces for communication via various media (eg modem, ISDN, LAN, USB, Firewire , WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS). Laptops can be operated with all common operating systems such as Windows or Linux. Therefore, the operating system-specific client module is also to be considered.

Typically, a laptop is temporarily operated alone, without being connected to a computer network, and from time to time it is connected to the government or enterprise network for data synchronization and data backup. Frequently, during mobile use, it is also connected directly via modem to external networks, in particular to the Internet, so that it can indirectly act as a bridge between the LAN and the Internet.

The devices for remote data transmission (via modem, ISDN card, etc.) are not dealt with here (see block B 4.3). The laptop is assumed to be used by only one user within a given period of time. A subsequent user change is taken into account.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

In the context of the use of laptops, a number of measures have to be implemented, starting with the conception over the procurement to the operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.

* Guidelines for Using LaptopsTo securely and effectively deploy laptops to the office or business, a concept should be created based on the security requirements for existing IT systems and the requirements of the intended deployment scenarios is based on (see M 2.36 Controlled transfer and withdrawal of a portable PC as well as module B 3.201 General Client). Based on this, the use of the laptop has to be regulated and security guidelines have to be developed (see M 2.309 Security Guidelines and Regulations for Mobile IT Use). This includes, for example, who may use the system when and for what purpose, and if and in what way a connection to the company or authority network is permitted. Likewise, it must be regulated whether and in which form a direct connection of the laptop to the Internet is permissible for mobile use.
* Obtaining LaptopsFor the procurement of laptops, it is necessary to formulate the requirements for the respective products resulting from the concept and, based on this, select the appropriate products (see M 2.310 Suitable selection of laptops).
* Secure Laptops InstallationA careful selection of operating system and software components, as well as their secure installation, is necessary to eliminate the risk of misuse or deliberate misuse of laptops. The measures to be taken here are highly dependent on the operating system used and are therefore to be implemented as part of the implementation of the corresponding components, for example B 3.204 client under Unix or B 3.209 client under Windows XP Action M 4.29 Of particular importance is the use of an encryption product for portable IT systems, as laptops have a relatively high theft risk and the normal access and access control functions lose their effectiveness when the laptop is under the control of the thief stands.
* Secure configuration of installed components Depending on security requirements, the software components involved must be configured differently. The measures to be taken here are likewise dependent on the operating system used and must therefore be implemented as part of the implementation of the corresponding components. Here, too, additional measures are required if separation of the rights of several users is required. Attention should also be paid to the modification of preset passwords, because too often every access control is illusory because the passwords used are generally known.
* Secure Laptops Operation One of the most important security measures for operating today's laptops is the installation and permanent updating of an anti-virus program. Laptops are often left idle for a longer period of time by the corporate or office network or with temporary connections to the Internet. Thus, on the one hand, on the one hand, their virus definition files are out of date and, on the other hand, they are exposed to a high risk of infection. The measures envisaged in module B 1.6 Protection against malicious programs, in particular the measure M 2.159 Updating the virus protection programs and signatures used, are therefore of particular importance for laptops. Otherwise, these devices can be the first-degree sources of infection when connected to a company or office network. If laptops are connected directly to the Internet during mobile use, they must be protected against attacks from the Internet by a restrictively configured personal firewall To protect the network. The virus protection alone is not enough to ward off all expected attacks. Likewise, it is absolutely necessary to keep the software of the laptop up to date and to install necessary security patches in a timely manner. If a laptop, which was operated directly on the Internet, is to be reconnected to the company or network, it must be ensured by a thorough check with current virus signatures that this laptop is not infected. Only when this is ensured can the connection to the local network be made. This also applies in the case that the connection to the company or authority network via a Virtual Private Network (VPN) takes place, since viruses can also be spread over encrypted communication links Switching between networked and mobile operations requires synchronizing the data between the server and the laptop. It must be ensured that it is always possible to determine whether the most up-to-date version of the processed data is on the laptop or in the network (see M 4.235 Comparing the data volume of laptops). To detect attempted attacks and abusive use Above all, organizational measures are necessary for laptops. The necessary measures are implemented within the framework of the implementation of module B 1.9 hardware and software management and therefore need not be considered further here. In order to keep track of the laptops currently connected to the local network and to be able to track the configuration of all laptops at any time, centralized management of these devices is important (see M 4.236 Central laptops administration) Special measures for individual systems are M 4.4 Appropriate handling of drives for removable media and external data storage devices and M 4.30 Use of the security functions offered in application programs.According to the physical security provided in a building or office It may also be useful or even necessary to implement the measure M 1.46 Use of anti-theft fuses. In the case of mobile use, in each case the measure M 1.33 Suitable storage of portable IT systems in mobile use must be used to protect the laptop against theft.
* Disposal When handing over laptops to other users, whether in the course of normal operation or even when they are disposed of, it must be ensured that there is no longer any valuable information on the hard disk. In particular, measures M 2.36 Controlled transfer and withdrawal of a portable PC as well as M gegebenenfalls4.28 software reinstallation when changing the user of a laptop are to be considered here.
* Data backup of laptopsThe procedure and the required extent of data backup depend on the deployment scenario of the laptop (see measure M 6.71 Data backup for mobile use of the IT system).


The following is a description of the range of measures for the laptop sector.



