#B 3.402 Fax machine
## Description 
The information transmission in the form of a fax is considered. In this case, the contents recorded thereon are scanned and transmitted from the originating item point by point by a template, and likewise reconstructed by a receiving device. For the selection of measures in the field of IT-Grundschutz, no differentiation was made according to the transmission standard used (eg CCITT Group 3). In this module, the technical basis of fax transmission is considered to be exclusively standard stand-alone fax machines, but not fax plug-in cards or fax servers (see block B 5.6 Fax server).



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For fax machines, a number of measures have to be implemented, beginning with procurement, through to operation and emergency preparedness. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###procurement
The measure M 2.49 Obtaining suitable fax equipment identifies the essential criteria that must be observed when selecting a fax machine.



###implementation
When installing the fax, it must be ensured that it is suitably set up in terms of usability, operability and use. The employees who should use the device are to be instructed in its operation.



###business
During operation, it is important to ensure that necessary consumables are stored in a suitable manner, so that no messages are only lost because there is no paper or toner at any given time. In general, it is useful to mark all shipments by a suitable Faxvorblatt and make it easier to identify. Periodic checks on the transmission and reception protocols make it easier to detect possible misuse of the fax, and occasional checking of programmed destinations helps to prevent programs from being mistakenly sent to the wrong recipient.



###segregation
When disposing of consumables and spare parts, it should be noted that on certain devices images of sent or received faxes are on intermediate carrier, exposure drums or on paper, so these materials should not be disposed of in such a way that: Later, unauthorized persons would gain access to it.

The following is a description of the scope of action for the fax machine sector:



