#B 3.213 Client on Windows 8
## Description 
With Windows 8, Microsoft has launched a client operating system that, on the one hand, further developed the techniques and components introduced with Windows 7, but on the other hand is especially geared to use on portable devices without a hardware keyboard, the can be operated by directly touching the screen and thus using it as an input device.

This requires in particular a new operating concept for applications. In addition to the classic desktop applications, Microsoft has also provided a class of mobile applications for use under Windows 8, the so-called apps. App s are consistently designed for control by touch. In addition, they can display display functions as a tile on the screen. Some applications, in particular the Internet Explorer delivered with Windows 8, are accordingly available in two variants for Windows 8. Desktop application and app can also be installed in parallel on the same system and used reciprocally. Many other applications are only available in the desktop version or as an app.

Since the market launch of Windows 8, Microsoft has made a number of improvements and integrated them into the operating system, giving it the version number of 8.1. This building block assumes that a Windows 8.1 version is in use. Insofar as deviations for Windows 8 exist for the described security measures, these are indicated in the texts.

The structure of the block is based on the structure of the B 3.212 Client block under Windows 7, so that a migration project from Windows 7 to Windows 8 makes it easy to adapt the existing security guidelines. In this case, special attention must be paid to the integrated support of the Trusted Platform Module (TPM) as well as the integration of cloud functions in the operating system, as these areas usually require new security measures to be taken and documented SEN. The same applies to the use of App s in the institution as well as to the extended protection mechanisms for applications. For this you will find hints in the tools for this module.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional components have to be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT basic protection.

Windows 8 already provides some security mechanisms in the basic configuration. Other security mechanisms must first be set up by those responsible. The central configuration and enforcement of technical security measures can be supported by an Active Directory (AD).

Where central configuration via AD is not available, technical measures must be set up decentralized on each client using local security policies. For this purpose, configuration files can be created centrally and transferred to the clients by means of suitable mechanisms and installed there.

For the secure configuration of clients under Windows 8, a number of measures are required, from conception to implementation (installation / configuration) to operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
The secure use of Windows clients requires careful planning. The aspects to be considered here are described in the plan M planen2.324 Implementation of Windows on Clients as of Windows XP. If a mobile application is planned, further aspects must be considered (M 2.442 Use of client operating systems from Windows Vista on mobile systems).

First select the correct Windows version for the operating environment (M 2.440 Suitable selection of a Windows version for clients as of Windows Vista). In the corporate environment, volume licensing agreements are usually used to procure Windows licenses. For the associated activation, the right conditions have to be created to ensure the availability of the systems (M 4.336 Activation of Windows systems as of Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement).

In the planning phase, the security requirements for the use of Windows 8 must also be developed and documented in the form of security guidelines (M 2.325 Planning of security guidelines for Windows clients as of Windows XP Planning of security guidelines for Windows clients from Windows XP). The Windows own protection functions should be used, in particular the user account control (M 4.340 use of the Windows user account control UAC starting from Windows Vista) and the integrity protection (M 4.341 integrity protection starting from Windows Vista). If possible, existing functions for the local storage of passwords should not be used in the company environment (M 4.425 Use of the vault and cardspace function on clients from Windows).

In a Windows domain, the security defaults should be configured centrally as far as possible via Group Policy and rolled out to the clients (M 2.326 Group Policy Planning for Clients as of Windows XP and M 4.245 Basic Settings for Windows Group Policy Objects).

If clients are migrated from a previous version of Windows, the compatibility of the applications used must be checked in advance (M 2.441 Compatibility Check of Software Versus Windows for Windows Vista Clients). Special features of Windows when dealing with legacy software are to be considered (M 4.338 use of file and registry virtualization for clients as of Windows Vista).

With increased protection requirements, the use of encryption mechanisms on the client is recommended. Windows 8 brings with it EFS (M 4.147 Secure use of EFS under Windows) and BitLocker (M 4.337 use of BitLocker Drive Encryption). If there are special requirements for the traceability of information processing on the client system, the use of time stamps for file access should be activated (M 4.342 Activation of the Last Access time stamp as of Windows Vista).



###procurement
As part of the procurement of Windows 8 systems are some questions to be resolved, including the used editions and the selection of a 32- or 64-bit variant. Support for this is M 2.559 Procurement of Windows 8.



###implementation
When Windows clients are set up, various protection aspects have to be considered (M 4.248 Secure installation of Windows client operating systems). The manipulation of client systems should be made more difficult by suitably securing the boot process (M 4.49 Protecting the boot process for a Windows system), all established user accounts protected by passwords of suitable strength (M 4.48 Password protection under Windows systems) and, if appropriate, the user environment is suitably restricted (M 2.32 Setting up a restricted user environment).

Other important safeguards are to protect the registry (M 4.75 registry protection on Windows systems) and to limit PowerShell (M .4.421 secures Windows PowerShell) and to protect communication with the domain (M 5.89 Configuring the secure channel under Windows). If older software is used, additional protective measures may be required (M 4.424 Secure use of older software from Windows 7).

In order to protect the processed data from unauthorized access, the file and share permissions must be restrictively assigned (M 4.149 file and share permissions under Windows). The use of homegroups should be prevented or at least regulated (M 4.423 Use of the homegroup function as of Windows 7).

In particular, the cloud functions integrated in Windows 8 carry the risk of an unintentional outflow of data about system usage. Corresponding countermeasures can be found in M 4.472 Data Sparing in Windows 8.

If there is an increased need for protection, communication with IPSec can be secured (M 5.90 Use of IPSec under Windows). With AppLocker, the execution of applications can be controlled to provide good protection against malicious software and manipulations (M 4.419 Application control from Windows 7 with AppLocker).

The users of the client systems must be suitably trained on security-relevant aspects of the operating system (M 3.28 Training on security mechanisms for users of Windows client operating systems Training on security mechanisms for users on Windows client operating systems).



###business
Measures for the safe operation of Windows 8 clients are compiled in the M 4.146 Safe operation of Windows client operating systems. In the face of repeated new security vulnerabilities, it is particularly important to keep the system up-to-date (keep M 4.249 Windows client systems up-to-date).

In particular, other operational tasks include monitoring the clients (M 4.344 Monitoring Windows systems as of Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008) and regularly checking their security (M 2,330 Regular Pr Security Guidelines and their Implementation on Windows Clients as of Windows XP).

Data may also unintentionally get into the hands of third parties so that they are not completely deleted if appropriate countermeasures are missing (M 4.56 Safe Erase under Windows Operating Systems). To securely exchange data using removable media, you can also use the BitLocker To Go encryption solution (M 4.422 Using BitLocker To Go as of Windows 7).



###emergency preparedness
A failure in client systems is in many cases uncritical, since there are sufficient replacement devices in the institution. However, if special hardware or software is needed or the clients are deployed on the move, emergency preparedness can be more costly. Therefore, client systems should also be considered appropriately in emergency planning (M 6.76 Creating an emergency plan for the failure of Windows systems). One of the key measures is to regularly back up the client-side programs and data (M 6.78 Backup under Windows Clients).



