#B 3.201 General Client
## Description 
Consider an IT system with any operating system that allows users to disconnect (at least one administrator and one user environment should be set up). Typically, such an IT system is networked and operates as a client in a client-server network.

The IT system can be run on any platform, whether it is a PC with or without a hard disk, but also a Unix workstation or an Apple Macintosh. The IT system can have floppy, CD-ROM, DVD or other drives for removable media and other peripherals. If the client has other interfaces for data exchange, such as. USB, Bluetooth, WLAN, these must be secured according to the security requirements of the institution, as described in the corresponding modules.

This module provides an overview of the hazards and security measures that apply to all clients, regardless of the platform and operating system used. Depending on the operating system used, the additional components of the IT-Grundschutz catalogs must also be observed.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For the use of workstations, the following steps should be taken with regard to the information security of clients:



###Planning the use of clients
For the secure use of IT systems, the general conditions must be defined in advance. The security requirements for the existing IT systems and the planned deployment scenarios must be included from the very beginning (see M 2.321 Planning of the use of client-server networks). Even before the computers and software are procured, a security policy should be created for the clients (see M 2.322 Defining a security policy for a client-server network).

General questions regarding the secure use of IT systems are considered in the module B 1.9 Hardware and Software Management.



###procurement
For the procurement of clients, which typically takes place in larger quantities, criteria for the selection of suitable products must be formulated based on the application scenarios (see B 1.10 Standard Software). When purchasing individual systems, it is also important that the system fits in with the existing structure, so that an individual system does not incur an unreasonable amount of integration and operation due to its special features.

If hardware or software does not meet the specified security requirements, further action is required. These may be of an organizational nature (for example, by regulations that the client may be operated exclusively behind closed doors) or additional components may be procured to compensate for the identified shortcomings.

For particularly high demands on the availability of the clients, the use of an uninterruptible power supply (UPS) is recommended for this purpose. This may be, for example, a single-user UPS, if the high requirements apply only to individual clients, or to its own correspondingly secure circuit (red power outlet). Further information can be found in M 1.28 Local Uninterruptible Power Supply.



###implementation
To preclude risks from misuse or intentional misuse of IT systems, careful selection of operating system and software components, secure installation, and careful configuration are important. The measures to be taken are highly dependent on the operating system used. More about this can be found in specific building blocks, for example in B 3.204 Client under Unix or B 3.210 Client under Windows Vista.

* Safe installationThe foundation for security is already laid during the preparation of the installation. Before installation, it should be determined which components of the operating system and which application programs and tools should be installed. The decisions made must be documented in such a way that, if necessary, it is possible to trace which configuration and software equipment was selected for the system (see M 4.237 Secure basic configuration of an IT system) .For the installation, only installation media should be used that come from a secure source (for example, directly from the manufacturer or distributor of the operating system or program). The installation of the operating system should, if possible, be carried out without the system being connected to the mains (offline installation). If parts of the packages are to be downloaded via the network during the installation, a separate network (test network) should be used for the installation, which is separated from the rest of the network. Reloading packages over the Internet is strongly discouraged. If it is necessary in exceptional cases to install a system directly in the production network, appropriate additional measures must be taken to ensure that the system can not be accessed from outside during the installation As you go through the installation, some basic system configuration settings (depending on the operating system) are usually made.
* Secure ConfigurationThe actual installation is followed by the basic configuration of a client. In this phase, the preliminary configuration, as set up by the installation program during the installation, is adapted to the actual circumstances and requirements of the information network in which the client is to be used. Often it more programs are installed or programs from a standard configuration, it will be removed, the settings for access to the network are determined, and the client is configured for accessing directory services or hnliches. In addition, unnecessary user IDs are deleted or disabled, and the user IDs for the actual users are created. In this phase, the required application programs are also installed and configured. For the installation and configuration of the application programs are analog security aspects as for the installation of the operating system itself is to be installed to beachten.Falls a greater number of configured similar clients and configured, so it makes sense, this is not f r durchzufhren each client individually, but to create a generic installation, which is subsequently transferred to the individual clients, and is required at only minimal changes before commissioning. Such a generic configuration can significantly increase efficiency and reduce the risk of errors. On the other hand, special care is required when creating the reference installation. The settings must clearly documented sein.Ein important principle when configuring clients is that normal operating errors, the user no serious damages to the system and to other users' data should lead, and that users do not by simple curiosity To gain access to information that is not intended for them. For more information, see M 4.237 Secure basic configuration of an IT system. After the client has been fully configured, the computer can be handed over to the users. If the users do not have sufficient knowledge of the used operating system, individual application programs or tools, they must be trained in advance. General aspects can be found in module B 1.13 Sensitization and Information Security Training.




###business
One of the most important security measures in the operation of today's client systems is to protect the systems by installing and permanently updating a virus scanner (see also B 1.6 Protection against malicious programs). In addition, a regular data backup (see also B 1.4 data backup concept) is a basic prerequisite for the fact that hardware defects and program or user errors do not lead to serious data losses.

One means of detecting attacks or malicious use is to monitor the system. Relevant measures can be found in M 4.93 Regular integrity check and M 5.8 Regular safety check of the network and in block B 1.9 Hardware and software management.

Even with clients, it is important that the administration takes place in a secure way and that the work of the administrators is comprehensible. The relevant aspects are described in M 4.234 Regulated Take-Up of IT Systems and Data Carriers.



###segregation
When eliminating a client, it must first be ensured that all user data is saved or transferred to a replacement system. Afterwards it must be ensured that no sensitive data remains on the hard disks of the computer. It is not enough just to reformat the disks, but they have to be completely overwritten at least once. It should be noted that neither a mere logical deletion nor the reformatting of the disks with the means of the installed operating system really removes the data from the hard disks. With suitable software, data that has been deleted in this way can be reconstructed, often without much effort. Instructions for safe deletion can be found in M 2.13 Proper disposal of valuable equipment and M 2.309 Safety guidelines and regulations for mobile IT use. After eliminating a client, directories and networks must be updated.



###emergency preparedness
The necessary degree of emergency preparedness for a general client is highly dependent on the individual deployment scenario. Frequently, emergency provision for a client is regular data backup (see M 6.32 Regular backup) and the creation of a bootable data medium for emergencies (see M 6.24 Creating an emergency -Bootmediums) be sufficient. For clients with special requirements for availability, it may be useful to take further measures, for example to keep an exchange system ready.

Depending on the operating system used, additional measures may be required when using this module. These can be found in the respective building blocks.

The following measures have to be implemented for the general client:



