#B 3.304 Virtualization
## Description 
Virtualization of IT systems involves running one or more virtual IT systems on a physical computer. Such a physical computer is called a virtualization server. Several such virtualization servers can often be combined into one virtual infrastructure. In such a virtual infrastructure, the virtualization servers themselves and the virtual IT systems running on them can be jointly managed.

The virtualization of IT systems offers manifold advantages for IT operation in an information network. Costs for hardware procurement, power and air conditioning can be saved by making more efficient use of server resources. The associated centralization and consolidation as well as the simplified provision of IT systems can also result in cost advantages for personnel and administration. At the same time, however, the possibilities of virtualization pose a new challenge for the operation of the information network. Since the use of virtualization technology involves different areas and fields of work in the information network, knowledge and experience from a wide variety of areas must be combined Be heard.

The use of virtualization servers and virtual IT systems must be considered in the protection requirements assessment for the present information network. It should be noted that the protection requirements of the virtualization server are influenced by the protection requirements of the virtual IT systems operating on it. Problems on one virtualization server or virtual IT system may also affect all other virtual IT systems running on the same virtualization server.

This module describes how the virtualization of IT systems can be introduced into the information network and under what conditions virtual infrastructures in the information network can be operated safely.

Thematic delimitation

In this module, only the virtualization of complete IT systems is treated, other techniques, which are also partly associated with the word virtualization (application virtualization using terminal servers, storage virtualization, etc.), are not the subject of this module. It looks at virtualization servers and virtual IT systems running operating systems that are often used directly on physical IT systems.

In the field of software development, the terms virtual machine and virtual machine monitor (VMM) are sometimes also used for certain runtime environments, for example when using Java or Dot-NET (Microsoft .NET). Such runtime environments are also not considered in this building block.



## Countermeasures 
In order to secure an information network, additional blocks must be implemented in addition to this block, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz. For the modeling of virtualization servers and virtual IT systems, note the following:

* The B 3.304 Virtualization module applies to any virtualization server or group of virtualization servers. A virtualization server is a physical IT system (client or server) running virtual IT systems. In addition to module B 3.304, the relevant server or client modules of layer 3 must also be applied to the virtualization server.
* In addition to physical IT systems and virtualization servers, virtual IT systems (virtual machines, VMs) must also be modeled using the building blocks from the IT baseline catalogs. VMs are basically modeled in the same way as physical IT systems, that is, the relevant building blocks of layers 3 and 5 are used. Since it often happens in practice that many VMs are set up, a sensible modeling of the VMs is often only possible by means of suitable group formation. For grouping, the same rules apply to VMs as to physical IT systems. In principle, such VMs can also be grouped together on different physical IT systems. Further notes on the modeling of virtual IT systems can be found in the M 2.392 Modeling of Virtualization Servers and Virtual IT Systems.




###Planning and conception
When planning a virtual IT infrastructure, a number of framework conditions must be considered. In addition to the questions about the virtualization technology to be used and the corresponding products (see M 2.477 Planning a Virtual Infrastructure) as well as the suitability of the relevant systems with regard to virtualization (M 2.444 Deployment Planning for Virtual IT Systems) is particularly important to plan the future network structure (M 5.153 planning of the network for virtual infrastructures). Furthermore, a number of organizational regulations have to be adapted.

Since virtualization servers are particularly well-suited for the development of test and development environments, detailed rules should be made on how to handle the data processed in these environments (M 2.82 Development of a test plan for standard software).



###procurement
When selecting the hardware for virtualization servers, care should be taken to procure systems that are suitable for the chosen virtualization solution. The systems must be powerful enough to provide sufficient performance for all planned virtual IT systems (M 2.445 Selection of suitable hardware for virtualization environments).



###implementation
The establishment of the virtual infrastructure or the installation of the virtualization server itself can be carried out according to the practiced procedures of the organization (B 3.101 General Server). The degree of complexity of a virtualization project as a whole should not be underestimated, however, so there are some peculiarities in the configuration of the networks (M 5.154 Secure configuration of a network for virtual infrastructures) and the design of the administrative access to the virtualization servers (M  2,446 division of the administration activities with virtualization servers).

For the provision of virtual IT systems on the virtualization servers, organizational measures for the installation of the virtual IT systems (M 2.447 Secure Use of Virtual IT Systems) must be supplemented by technical measures ( M 4.346 Secure Configuration of Virtual IT Systems) to ensure their safe operation.

On the actual virtualization servers, as far as possible, only those services should be operated that belong to the virtualization technology. Other services should be deployed in the virtualized instances (or on non-virtual infrastructure systems).



###business
The measures M 2.448 Monitoring of the function and configuration of virtual infrastructures and M 4.349 Secure operation of virtual infrastructures of virtual infrastructures form the basis for the secure operation of both the virtualization server and the virtual IT systems. Furthermore, the measure M 4.348 time synchronization in virtual IT systems must be taken into account.



###emergency preparedness
In the case of emergency provisioning for virtualization servers, it should be taken into consideration that the more virtual IT systems are operated on one virtualization server, the higher the potential damage. Therefore, the protection requirements of the whole of the virtual IT systems must be mapped to the protection requirements of the virtualization components (M 6.138 creation of a contingency plan for the failure of virtualization components).

The following is a description of the set of measures for the virtualization module.



