#B 3.202 General non-networked IT system
## Description 
Considered is an IT system that is not networked with any other IT system. It can be equipped with any operating system. The IT system can be run on any platform, whether it is a PC with or without a hard disk, but also a Unix workstation or an Apple Macintosh. For example, the IT system can have floppy, CD-ROM, DVD, or other drives for removable media and other peripherals. If the client has other interfaces for data exchange, such as. USB, Bluetooth, WLAN, these must be secured according to the security requirements of the institution, as described in the corresponding modules. Any existing printer is connected directly to the IT system.

This chapter provides an overview of the hazards and security measures that are typical of non-networked IT systems. This overview is independent of the operating system used. For this, the further components of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs must be observed.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

In the following, the package of measures for the general non-networked IT system is presented. A part of the measures mentioned here must be implemented in any case, even if only one person uses this IT system. If several users are to work on the IT system, an administration of the computer and a user separation are additionally necessary. In this case also the measures and dangers which are relevant for the multi-user operation are to be considered.

Depending on the operating system used, additional measures may be required in addition to the application of this block, which may be described in other blocks.

For the use of non-networked workstations, the following steps should be taken with regard to information security:

* Guidelines for using non-networked IT systemsBinding policies must be established for the secure use of IT systems. This includes, for example, who is allowed to use the system when and for what purposes and to which data the access is permitted in what way. This work will be carried out as part of the implementation of the measures of module B 1.9 Hardware and Software Management.
* Secure installation of non-networked IT systemsA careful selection of operating system and software components, as well as their secure installation, is necessary to eliminate the risk of misuse or deliberate misuse of IT systems. The measures to be taken here are highly dependent on the operating system used and are therefore to be implemented in the framework of the implementation of the corresponding components, for example B 3.204 client under Unix or B 3.209 client under Windows XP. In this case, the measure M 4.15 Secure login is of particular importance, since the technical protection of non-networked systems is based to a large extent on suitable access control. Additional measures are especially necessary if several users with different authorizations are to access the same IT system: M 2.63 Setting up access rightsM 3.18 Obliging users to log off after task completionM 4.41 Using appropriate security products f  IT systems
* Secure configuration of installed components Depending on security requirements, the software components involved must be configured differently. The measures to be taken here are likewise dependent on the operating system used and must therefore be implemented as part of the implementation of the corresponding components. Here, too, additional measures are required if separation of the rights of several users is required. Attention should also be paid to the modification of preset passwords, because too often every access control is illusory because the passwords used are generally known.
* Secure operation of non-networked IT systems One of the most important security measures in the operation of today's client systems is the installation and permanent update of a virus scanner. Organizational measures are necessary for non-networked IT systems in order to be able to detect attacks and abusive use. The necessary measures are implemented within the framework of the implementation of the modules B 1.6 protection against malicious programs and B 1.9 hardware and software management and therefore need not be considered further here. Specific measures for individual systems are primarily M 4.4 Appropriate handling of drives for removable media and external data storage devices and M 4.30 Use of the security functions offered in application programs.
* Data backup of non-networked IT systems (see S 6.32) The procedure and the required scope of data backup depend on the deployment scenario of the IT system (see measure M 6.32 Regular data backup).


The following measures have to be implemented for the general non-networked IT system:



