#B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall)
## Description 
A security gateway (often called a firewall) is a system of software and hardware components to securely pair IP networks. For this purpose, the technically possible is restricted to the communication that is properly defined in a security guideline. Security in network coupling means the exclusive admission of requested accesses or data streams between different networks.

Security gateways are deployed at the central junction between two different trusted networks. Differently trusted networks do not necessarily represent only the combination of Internet intranets. Rather, two intra-organization networks can also have different levels of protection requirements. B. in the separation of B rokommunikationsnetzes from the network of the personnel department, in the particularly sensitive personal data are transmitted.

The use of the term "security gateway" instead of the commonly used term "firewall" should make it clear that to protect network connections, it is often no longer a single device that is used, but rather a whole series of IT systems that perform different tasks , z. Packet filtering, protection against viruses or network traffic monitoring (intrusion detection).

This module describes only the hazards and actions specific to a security gateway. In addition, the hazards and actions that are specific to the IT system that implements the security gateway should be considered. In many cases, components of security gateways are implemented on a Unix system, in which case, in addition to the dangers and measures described below, the components described in block B 3.102 Server under Unix must be observed.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional blocks have to be implemented in addition to this block, according to the results of the modeling after IT-Grundschutz.

A security gateway does not protect against attacks that occur within the internal network. To protect the internal network against attacks from inside out- puts, all necessary security measures must be implemented when using a security gateway. If the internal network is, for example, a Unix or PC network, the security measures described in the respective blocks must be implemented.

The security gateway should be located in a separate server room. Here, measures to be implemented are described in block B 2.4 Server room. If no server room is available, the security gateway can alternatively be installed in a server cabinet (see block B 2.7 Protective cabinets). If the security gateway is not operated by itself but by a service provider, block B 1.11 is to be used for outsourcing. In particular, the recommendations in M 5.116 Integration of an e-mail server into a security gateway should be taken into account.

For the successful construction of a security gateway, a series of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the conception through the procurement to the operation of the components. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
In order to connect networks with different protection needs, a concept for the network coupling should first be created with the aid of a security gateway (see M 2.70 Development of a concept for security gateways). Here are some of the things to consider:

* Defining the security goals
* Adaptation of the network structure
* basic requirements


In a so-called policy for the security gateway, it has to be determined which information, services and protocols are to be treated as, eg. which services are allowed and who may use them (see M 2.71 Definition of a Policy for a Security Gateway). These include the aspects:

* Selection of communication requirements
* Selection of Services (Before selecting the service, the explanations and constraints of M 5.39 Safe Use of Protocols and Services should be read.)
* Organizational regulations


In addition, a security policy must be created for the security gateway, which describes regulations and instructions for the secure operation and administration of the security gateway or its individual components (see M .2.299 Creating a Security Policy for a Security Gateway).

In order to securely connect the networks of the institution to the Internet, a concept for the type of Internet connection and its reliable protection must also be worked out (see M 2.476 Concept for the secure Internet connection).



###procurement
Before procuring the components of the security gateway, a basic structure for the security gateway suitable for the respective institution should be selected (see M 2.73 Selection of suitable basic structures for security gateways). Criteria for the procurement of packet filters and application-level gateways can be found in M 2.74 Suitable selection of a packet filter and M 2.75 Suitable selection of an application-level gateway.

There are several ways to connect to the internet. In addition to the appropriate access technology, an Internet Service Provider (ISP) must also be selected. This provides for connection to a dial-in node and can also offer other services (see M 2.176 Suitable selection of an Internet service provider).



###implementation
In order to build up a security gateway, the following aspects should be implemented, among others:

* Set up and implement filter rules (see M 2.76 Selecting and setting up suitable filter rules)
* Implementation of the IT-Grundschutz measures for the components of the security gateway
* Implementation of the IT-Grundschutz measures, which check the IT systems of the internal network
* Observe the boundary conditions for the safe use of the individual protocols and services (see M 5.39 Secure Use of Protocols and Services)
* Integration of additional components (see M 2.77 Integration of servers in the security gateway)




###business
To safely operate a security gateway permanently, a number of measures are required (see M 2.78 Secure operation of a security gateway). These include:

* Regular checking of the settings for correctness and timeliness
* Adaptation to changes and tests
* Logging of security gateway activities and evaluation of log data (see M .4.4 Logging Security Gateway Activities)
* Emergency preparedness for the security gateway (supplementary see module B 1.3 Emergency management
* Data backup (see block B 1.4 Data backup concept)




###segregation
Components of the security gateway can contain a large number of security-relevant data such as configuration or password files. Therefore, all safety-relevant information must be deleted from the devices before they are discarded (see M 2.300 Safe commissioning or replacement of components of a security gateway).



###emergency preparedness
Errors or failures of a security gateway or even individual components can have immediate and serious consequences. Therefore, sufficient precautionary measures must be taken for emergencies (see M 6.49 Data backup of a database).

There may be different reasons to opt out of using a security gateway. This may be the cost of acquisition or the administrative effort, but also the fact that the existing residual risks can not be accepted. If nevertheless a connection to the Internet is desired, alternatively a stand-alone system can be used (see M 5.46 Use of stand-alone systems for the use of the Internet).

The following is a description of the security gateway policy area.



