#B 3.107 S / 390 and zSeries Mainframe
## Description 
The IBM S / 390 and zSeries systems are among the server systems commonly referred to as mainframes. Mainframes have evolved from classic single-tier systems with batch processing to modern client / server systems. Today they form the upper end of the range of offered server systems.

This module only looks at IBM zSeries or IBM S / 390 mainframes. zSeries systems with the z / OS operating system are a logical evolution of the OS / 390 architecture. zSeries comes with zS B. add the additional 64 Bit support. Both types of systems exist side-by-side, with OS / 390 being considered an expiring OS because IBM discontinued service in the fall of 2004. For clarity, only the term zSeries for the hardware and z / OS for the operating system are used in this context.

history

Introduced in 1964, the S / 360 architecture provides the basis for all subsequent enhancements and can still be found today in its essential parts on the current zSeries systems. The name change, from S / 360 to S / 370 and S / 390 to the current zSeries, reflects the ongoing evolution of the underlying architecture. Because of their downwards compatibility, the architecture supports not only newer 64-bit applications but also programs in the older 24- or 31-bit mode.

Despite increasing performance, the physical dimensions of mainframe systems have been greatly reduced. Today's mainframe systems are similar in size to other systems typically found in data centers.

overview

For zSeries systems, mechanisms are available to achieve high availability and scalability. The high availability is achieved by redundant design of the components. To increase performance and availability, up to 16 processors can currently be run in parallel in a zSeries system, and up to 32 zSeries systems can be clustered together. This is called a parallel sysplex cluster.

Various operating systems are available for the zSeries hardware (for example, z / OS, VSE, z / VM, or TPF). The selection is usually based on the parameters calculator size and purpose. Most commonly, however, the z / OS operating system is used. In order not to go beyond the scope of this module, the recommendations in this module are essentially limited to the z / OS operating system.

The extension of the z / OS operating system, formerly known as MVS, to the Unix System Services subsystem makes it possible to run Unix-based applications in parallel to the classic mainframe applications. In addition, a Linux operating system is also available for the zSeries hardware.

Fields of application for today's z / OS systems are:

* classic batch processing for large batch chains,
* Batch processing including transaction-oriented processing (eg IMS or CICS),
* Database server (eg DB2, IMS DB or Oracle) or
* Web server and its applications


The software components described in this module mainly refer to products of the manufacturer IBM. There are also many third-party products that are commonly used in large-scale computing environments. These products can only be addressed in exceptional cases, otherwise the frame of the module would be blown up.

The z / OS operating system consists of the actual operating system (kernel) with interfaces to the user processes. Different subsystems control and support the communication. The most important subsystems are

* the Job Entry Subsystem (JES) for the background operation (batch process or batch called),
* the Time Sharing Option (TSO) for foreground operation (interactive) and
* the Unix System Services (Posix-compatible Unix subsystem).


Other subsystems are z. B.

* the transaction manager IMS and the associated database for transaction-oriented data processing,
* transaction manager CICS for transaction-oriented data processing,
* the DB2 database for relational databases and
* the Communications Server (SNA, TCP / IP) for network connections.


The System Security Facility (SAF) security interface makes it possible to protect the system and files against unauthorized access. The actual security functions are provided by the security software RACF. Alternative products to be mentioned here include Top Secret and ACF2.

The following figure illustrates the connections of the operating system structure very simplified:



An overview of the zSeries and z / OS architecture and terminology explanations can be found in the following:

* M .3.39 Introduction to the zSeries Platform
* M 3.40 Introduction to the z / OS Operating System
* M .3.41 Introduction to Linux and z / VM for zSeries systems




## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For the successful construction of a z / OS mainframe system, a number of measures have to be implemented, starting with the strategic decision, from conception and installation to operation. It should not be forgotten that a system is properly sorted out when the end of the operating phase is reached.

In parallel with the operational phase, emergency preparedness must ensure that operation can be maintained even in an emergency. Safety management and auditing ensure that the rules are adhered to.

The steps to be taken and the actions to be followed in each phase are listed below:



###strategy
Before any planning begins, there will be a phase of strategic orientation largely based on the needs of the application owners. Here it must be checked whether the z / OS platform is suitable for the solution of the respective task.

In addition, it depends on the general orientation of the IT landscape of the data center. If there is no z / OS platform in operation, the necessary knowledge of the operating staff must be prepared accordingly. The measures serve as support for strategic planning

* M .3.39 Introduction to the zSeries Platform,
* M 3.40 Introduction to the z / OS Operating System And
* M .3.41 Introduction to Linux and z / VM for zSeries systems.


They provide an overview of the individual functions of hardware and software and thus support the understanding of the z / OS platform.



###conception
If the strategic decision to use a z / OS mainframe system has been made, then a detailed plan for using this system must be followed. The following measures should be taken into account:

* Prior to purchasing and commissioning zSeries systems, various planning activities must be performed (see M 2.286 Planning and Using zSeries Systems).
* For higher demands on availability or scalability, we recommend the use of a parallel Sysplex cluster (see M 4.221 Parallel Sysplex under z / OS).
* Security policies must be planned and defined for the z / OS system and, in particular, for the Resource Access Control Facility (RACF) security system (see M .2.288 Creating Security Policies for z / OS Systems).
* Standards for the z / OS system definitions must be defined (see M .2.285 Defining standards for z / OS system definitions).
* A role concept for the system administration of z / OS systems should be introduced (see M 2.295 System Administration of z / OS Systems).




###implementation
After the organizational and planning preparations have been completed, you can install the zSeries hardware and the z / OS operating system. The following measures should be observed:

* A secure basic configuration of the authorization mechanisms of the z / OS operating system is required (see M 4.209 Secure basic configuration of z / OS systems).
* Essential for the security of the z / OS environment is the corresponding configuration of the security system (see M 4.211 Using the z / OS Security System RACF).
* For the implementation of the z / OS controller, including the Remote Support Facility (RSF) remote control console, the recommendations in Action M 4.207 Using and Securing System-Side z / OS Terminals should be followed.




###business
After the initial installation and a test operation phase, normal operation is started. From a security point of view, the following aspects should be considered:

* The provision of the functionalities of the z / OS operating system requires safe operation of the z / OS operating system (see M 4.210 Secure operation of the z / OS operating system).
* You must back up the utilities that support z / OS operating system operations and require high levels of authorization (see M 4.215 Securing Security-Critical z / OS Utilities).
* The required maintenance activities of a z / OS system are described in the M .2.293 Maintenance of zSeries Systems.
* z / OS systems or parallel sysplex clusters must be monitored during operation (see M 2.292 Monitoring z / OS systems).




###segregation
Recommendations for uninstalling z / OS systems, for example after completion of normal operation, can be found in the M 2.297 Uninstallation of z / OS systems.



###emergency preparedness
Recommendations for emergency preparedness can be found in the M 6.93 Emergency preparedness for z / OS systems.



###Security management and revision
Security management should accompany the complete lifecycle of a z / OS system. The following points should be noted:

* When awarding and reviewing authorizations, check whether the relevant employees need them for their work. This is especially true for high authorizations (see measure M 2.289 Use of restrictive z / OS identifiers).
* When operating a z / OS system, check regularly whether the security requirements are met (see measure M .2.291 Security reporting and audits on z / OS).


The following is a description of the action block for the S / 390 and zSeries mainframe block.



