#B 4.8 Bluetooth
## Description 
Bluetooth is an open industry standard for a license-free, near-field wireless technology for wireless voice and data communication between IT devices (cable replacement and ad-hoc networking). The development of Bluetooth goes back to an initiative of the Bluetooth Special Interest Group (Bluetooth SIG) in the year 1998, which belongs to a large number of manufacturers.

With Bluetooth, mobile devices can be quickly and easily connected to each other via a wireless interface. Various Bluetooth profiles defined in the devices then enable the transmission of data, voice signals, control information, and the provision of services such as FTP or modem and network services. Just like WLAN, Bluetooth operates in the license-free ISM band between 2.402 GHz and 2.480 GHz, but only has a range of about 100 m, but, unlike infrared, does not require any line of sight between the individual terminals. Bluetooth is used primarily in mobile devices such as mobile phones, PDAs or laptops.

In this module, a systematic way is to be shown, how Bluetooth-enabled terminal devices of an institution can be safely used.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For secure use of Bluetooth, coupled clients must be securely configured. Suitable security recommendations for clients are described in the modules of layer 3.

As part of the Bluetooth deployment, a number of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the conception, from procurement to operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
In order to be able to use Bluetooth safely and effectively, a concept based on the overall security strategy of the institution and the requirements of the planned deployment scenarios should be drawn up. Based on this, the use of Bluetooth in the office or in the company is to be regulated and a security guideline has to be developed (see M 2.461 Planning of the safe use of Bluetooth).



###procurement
For the procurement of Bluetooth components, the requirements of the respective products resulting from the concept must be formulated and the selection of suitable products must be made based on them (see M 2.462 Selection Criteria for the Procurement of Bluetooth Devices) ).



###implementation
Depending on the security requirements, the Bluetooth components must be configured differently (see M 4.362 Secure Bluetooth configuration). Users and administrators should be sufficiently trained to minimize security incidents and to alert and sensitize them to possible dangers of improper use of Bluetooth components (see M 3.80 Awareness for the use of Bluetooth).



###business
Bluetooth devices must be adequately protected during operation (see M 4.363 Secure operation of Bluetooth devices).



###segregation
If Bluetooth devices are taken out of service, all sensitive information such as access information must be deleted (see M 4.364 regulations for the separation of Bluetooth devices).

In the following the measures for the use of Bluetooth are presented.



