#B 4.4 VPN
## Description 
The increasing networking of computers and computer networks has caused a change in the communication behavior of authorities and companies. Communication networks are used to search for information to perform tasks efficiently, but increasingly as a universal transport medium for data. With the help of Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), security measures can be implemented in order to transfer sensitive data via non-trustworthy networks such as the Internet.

The module number B 4.4 dealt with the subject Remote Access in previous versions of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs. This module contains recommendations for the use of site-to-site, end-to-end, or end-to-site VPNs. The standard security measures required for Remote Access are integrated in this module under the heading of Remote Access VPNs (End-to-Site VPNs).

A Virtual Private Network (VPN) is a network that is physically operated within another network, such as the Internet, but is logically disconnected from that network. VPNs can protect the integrity and confidentiality of data using cryptographic techniques. The secure authentication of the communication partners is also possible if several networks or computers are connected to each other via leased lines or public networks.

In the case of VPNs, a distinction is basically made between the following variants or combinations thereof:

* Site-to-site VPN: Two computer networks are connected via a VPN, for example to securely connect the branches of an institution.
* End-to-end VPN: In this variant, a VPN is established between two terminals. In particular, connecting two servers to a VPN often calls it a host-to-host connection.
* End-to-Site VPN (or Remote Access VPN): A VPN is established between a terminal and a network. This variant is typically used when a mobile user wants to access his institution's LAN via a VPN dial-in node while on the move with his laptop. This type of access is also called remote access.


Site-to-site VPNs are used to connect distributed LANs of multiple branch offices within a company or agency. An end-to-end VPN enables business partners or customers to access a central IT system of an institution. In the case of a remote access VPN, employees can dial into the company LAN or the local area network from an external point of view.



## Countermeasures 
According to the results of the modeling for IT-Grundschutz, in addition to this module, further modules have to be implemented in order to secure the considered information network.

For the successful establishment of a VPN, a series of measures have to be implemented, beginning with a requirement analysis, over planning, conception and installation up to safe operation. Particularly important is the execution of an appropriate emergency planning, in order to be able to guarantee a rapid restoration of the communication connection in case of error.

The following are the necessary measures for the proper introduction of a VPN and its secure operation:



###Planning the use of VPNs
If the decision has been made to use a VPN for certain connections, its structure must be planned and designed. In this case, different VPN variants can be used within an institution. The first step is always to determine the necessary requirements for such a system (see M 2.415 Execution of a VPN requirement analysis). Only after the requirements have been clearly defined can it be started to create a corresponding concept (M 2.416 Planning of the VPN deployment and M 2.417 Planning of the technical VPN implementation).

Special attention should be given to the definition of a dedicated VPN security policy, which must be aligned with the general information security guideline. The aspects to be taken into consideration are summarized in M 2.418 Creating a Security Policy for VPN Usage.



###procurement
The appropriate selection of a VPN product is crucial to be able to implement the planned requirements accordingly. When selecting the VPN components, the recommendations given in M 2.419 Suitable Selection of VPN Products must therefore be observed. If an external service provider is commissioned to provide a VPN, the aspects presented in M 2.420 Selection of a Trusted VPN Service Provider must be taken into account.



###implementation
After completion of the organizational and planning preparatory work, the installation of the VPN can begin. In particular, M 4.319 Secure Installation of VPN Terminals should be noted. Once the basic installation has been completed, the system must be brought to a safe operating state so that ongoing operation can then be started (see M 4.320 Secure VPN configuration). To adequately protect the VPN endpoints, these VPN components must be integrated into the security infrastructure in a security gateway.



###business
Even during operation, the security of the VPN must be permanently guaranteed. The recommendations for this are summarized in the M 4.321 Secure VPN Operation.



###segregation
Forgotten VPN access or access by partners with whom the cooperation has already been terminated represent unnecessary security gaps and must be blocked as soon as possible. For this, the recommendations made in M 4.322 Blocking no longer required VPN access must be observed.



###emergency preparedness
Depending on the availability requirements, a downtime of the VPN may lead to more or less serious problems. To counter this, a corresponding emergency concept must be created. The necessary recommendations are described in M 6.109 Emergency Plan for the Failure of a VPN.

In the following the measures for the area VPN are presented.



