#B 4.2 Network and system management
## Description 
A management tool for a generally local computer network (LAN) serves to centrally manage all network components located in the local network as far as possible. In addition, such a system provides information about the current status of the network and the components contained therein. In this way, a network management tool can help to establish security in the network. In principle, a distinction can be made between network management and system management. The differences arise from the components managed in each case.

Network management comprises all the arrangements and activities to ensure that a network is used effectively. This includes, for example, the monitoring of the network components for their correct function, the monitoring of the network performance and the central configuration of the network components. Network management is primarily an organizational problem, the solution of which can only be supported by technical means.

Systems management is primarily concerned with the management of distributed IT systems. This includes, for example, central administration of users, software distribution, application management, etc. In some areas, such as: In configuration management (monitoring and consolidating configurations of a system or network component), network and system management can not be clearly distinguished.

In the following, the (software) tool used to manage a network and its components will always be referred to as a management system, and the components it manages will be referred to as a managed system. In English, the terms management system and managed system are used here, especially in the area of ??network management.

In principle, the architecture of management software has a centralized structure: There is a central management station or console from which the system administrators can manage the network entrusted to them with the hardware and software components located therein. In particular, the systems for network management build on this.

A network management system is usually based on a model that differentiates between manager, agent (also management agent) and managed objects (also known as managed objects). The other components are the protocol used between the manager and the agents for communication, as well as an information database, the so-called MIB (Management Information Base). The MIB must be available to both the manager and any management agent. Conceptually, management agents and their MIBs are considered part of the managed system.



An agent is responsible for one or more objects to be managed. It is possible to organize the agents hierarchically: an agent is then responsible for the subagents assigned to them. At the end of each chain of orders arising in this way is always an object to be managed. An object to be managed is either a physical object (device), such as a computer, a printer or a router, or a software object, such as a. a background process for managing print jobs. For devices that can be managed by a management system, the management agent is usually already built into the device by the manufacturer. If this does not understand the communication protocol used by the manager, z. B. a software management agent that masters the protocol implementation. Similarly, software components may already include the management agent, or require a special management agent designed to manage this software component.

To address the individual components of the system being managed, the manager and the respective agents exchange information. The type of protocol used for communication essentially determines the strength and especially the security of the management system.

In principle, management systems can be divided into three categories with regard to the communication protocol used (see also M 2.144 Use of SNMP as network management protocol):

* It uses SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol), the widely used standard protocol of TCP / IP-based system management.
* It uses CMIP (Common Management Information Protocol). CMIP is mainly used for the management of telecommunications networks and has no significance in TCP / IP-based communication.
* A manufacturer-specific protocol is used. There is usually the possibility to use so-called adapters to integrate the standard protocols, whereby usually only one SNMP connection exists.


Although system management systems are typically designed to be centralized to allow management of the system from a management station, the concrete architecture depends on how large the systems that can be managed may be which range of functions is offered. The range extends from simple collections of management tools that can be deployed side by side in small networks without integration, to management platforms that can manage a global corporate network of several thousand computers.

Certain management platforms use proprietary protocols for communication between the components. As a rule, these systems have a much higher performance range and not only serve the network and system management, but also offer company-wide or authority-wide resource management.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional components have to be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT basic protection. These must include the blocks B 4.1 Local networks, B 2.12 IT cabling and B 3.302 routers and switches.

The system to be managed consists of individual clients, servers, active network components (network elements) and passive network components (cabling and patch panels). Each of these components is a potential security risk for the entire network. In general, these risks can not be completely eliminated by introducing management software alone. This is true because, as a rule, not all systems are equally covered by a management system. As a basic prerequisite for system security, a system-wide security guideline must be defined, which in the case in question must be reflected in particular in the secure configuration of hardware and software. For this reason, in addition to the above-mentioned building blocks, the building blocks of layer  3 should be considered in particular.

Since network and system management systems are based on a centralized approach, the central management station is of particular importance from a security point of view. This is therefore to be particularly appreciated. Central components of a network and system management system should therefore be installed in rooms that meet the requirements of a server room (see module B 2.4 server room). If no server room is available, they can alternatively be installed in a server cabinet (compare block B 2.7 Protective cabinets).

For the successful development of a network and system management system, a series of measures are to be implemented, beginning with the conception from procurement to operation. The steps that should be taken and the measures to be taken in the process are observed in the following steps.



###Planning and conception
Fundamental to the introduction of a management system is the creation of a concept for network management (see M 2.143 Development of a network management concept) and a strategy for system management (see M 2.169 Developing a system management strategy). Concept and strategy must be based on the size and structure of the network to be managed and take into account future developments of the network.

Closely related to the decision for a network management tool is the choice of a network management protocol (M 2.144 using SNMP as a network management protocol). The selection of a system management tool is influenced by the analysis of the IT contained in the network (M 2.168 IT system analysis before the introduction of a system management system).

It must be prevented that management information transmitted between the central component of the management system and the IT systems to be managed can be intercepted or manipulated (see M 2.144 Use of SNMP as network management protocol and M  2.581 Structure of an administration network for network management).

Already in the planning phase, logging including evaluation of the collected log information should be prepared (see M 2.499 Planning of logging). In addition to their protection, a uniform system time is essential for all components that are logged, otherwise an evaluation of the protocol data is difficult (see M 4.227 Use of a Local NTP Server for Time Synchronization Use of a Local NTP Server) Time synchronization).

Due to the complexity of the network and system management as well as the high demands on the availability of the network, it must be ensured that the administrators are adequately trained (see M 3.11 Training of maintenance and administration personnel).



###procurement
In addition to the management concept and the selection of the network management protocol, there are other aspects that must be taken into account when choosing a management tool (see M 2.145 Requirements for a network management tool, M 2.170 Requirements for a system management system, M 2.583 Appropriate selection of a network management system and M 2.171 Suitable selection of a system management product).



###implementation
When creating a new system landscape, a management tool must also be installed (see M 4.497 Secure Installation of a Network Management System and M 4.91 Secure Installation of a System Management System).

In most cases, however, an already existing network with existing systems and a corresponding network and system management should be available. Misuse of the management tool may result in attacks on the managed network or systems it contains. The management tool must therefore be protected against unauthorized local access and remote access (see M 4.79 Secure Access Mechanisms for Local Administration and M 4.80 Secure Access Mechanisms for Remote Administration).



###business
For the safe operation of the network and system management system, some basic rules must be observed (see M 2.146 Safe operation of a network management system and M 4.92 Safe operation of a system management system).

Special emphasis is also placed on the handling of warning and error messages (see M 2.498 Handling warning and error messages) and the logging of network activities (see M 4.81 Audit and logging of activities in the network).



###emergency preparedness
Due to the importance of networks and systems for IT-supported processes, emergency plans for network and system management must also be provided in the event of a failure (see M 6.57 Creating an emergency plan f  r the failure of the management system). Although the network and the connected systems continue to function if the management system is not available, the network management system is essential for the secure operation of a network.

In order to be able to react quickly in the event of a network failure, it is absolutely necessary to be able to restore the essential network element configurations (see M 6.52 Regular backup of the configuration data of active network components).

The following is a description of the measures for the network and system management module.



