#B 4.5 LAN connection of an IT system via ISDN
## Description 
ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network) is a digital telecommunications network that can be used to transmit various services, such as telephone and fax, and to transmit data and images.

This chapter looks at connecting a remote IT system to a local area network over a public ISDN network. Here, the connection is made on the side of the remote IT system using an ISDN adapter card with S0 interface. The connection to the LAN is made via a router, which is connected via an S2M interface to a public ISDN network.

This form of connection to a remote IT system is typically considered for the connection of teleworking.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

This chapter focuses on the guarantee of secure communication. The measures required for the communicating IT systems can be found in the respective modules.

A number of measures have to be implemented for the LAN connection of an IT system via ISDN, beginning with the planning and conception, through the procurement to the ongoing operation. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
The secure use of remote access to IT systems requires the observance of a number of measures to protect communications (see measure M 5.32 Secure Use of Communication Software).



###procurement
The measure M 2.106 Selection of suitable ISDN cards in procurement specifies a number of important criteria that must be taken into account when selecting ISDN cards.



###implementation
When installing ISDN access, the basic rule is that all unnecessary services and functions must be switched off because they entail only unnecessary risks. The functions actually used are to be protected as well as possible by suitable configuration, which necessarily includes the immediate change of any passwords specified by the manufacturer. The intended configuration must be documented and this documentation must be updated in case of changes.

An essential aspect in the installation of an ISDN access is still that this may not undermine the existing security of a computer network. In particular, this must under no circumstances create a connection to external networks, which bridges an existing firewall system and thus makes it largely ineffective.



###business
Regular checks of the generated log files make it easier to detect possible misuse of the ISDN connection. An occasional check of programmed destination addresses and protocols helps to avoid inadvertently establishing connections with the wrong communication partner.

In the following, the set of measures for the area LAN connection of an IT system via ISDN will be presented.



