#B 5.27 Software development
## Description 
Often available standard software does not have the expected functionality or does not meet the desired requirements. Likewise, many institutions already have individually developed software products that are outdated or that need to be extended with additional functions to adapt them to new or changed business processes. Often, these requirements can only be fulfilled by proprietary software.

The software development module deals with all relevant aspects that institutions have to consider when using in-house developed software. For this purpose, preparation, processing and commissioning by the institution are considered and corresponding dangers and measures are selected.

The module is not a complete guide to the general approach to software development, but focuses on the relevant aspects of information security in software development. With this block, the blocks B 5.25 General applications and B 1.10 standard software are extended by concrete implementation instructions for in-house development of software.



## Countermeasures 
In order to secure an information network, further modules have to be implemented in addition to this module according to the results of the modeling after IT-Grundschutz.

If the developed software is used in productive operation, the organizational aspects of the cross-module B 1.10 standard software must also be observed. Furthermore, module B 5.25 describes general application procedures for the use of software and must always be implemented together with this module. In particular, the phases of operation, segregation and emergency preparedness apply here as well to individually developed software. When developing web applications, B 5.21 web applications should be considered.



###Planning and conception
Careful planning and design is essential in the development of software. The responsibilities must be defined (see M 2.569 Definition of Roles and Responsibilities in Software Development) and a procedure model selected (see M 2.570 Selection of a Process Model for Software Development). Legal and regulatory requirements must be taken into account throughout software development (see M 2.571 Consideration of compliance requirements for software development).



###procurement
A suitable development environment must be selected (see M 4.493 Selecting a Development Environment for Software Development and M 2.567 Selection of Trusted Development Tools). Tools for software development should be procured according to standardized, documented procedures (see M 2.572 Procurement of software development tools).



###implementation
During the software development, the development environment must be used safely (see M 4.494 Secure Use of a Development Environment). The design of the software must be as safe as possible (see M 4.495 Safe system design in software development) and also implemented as safely as possible (see M 2.573 Compliance with a safe approach to software development and M .4.42 implementation of Security functionalities in the IT application). The results of the software development must be adequately tested before commissioning (see M 2.568 test procedure for software). The entire development process must be completely documented (see M 2.574 Detailed documentation of software development) and the employees involved must be trained accordingly (see M 3.97 Training the project team for software development).



###business
For commissioning, the software must be installed safely (see M 4.496 Secure installation of the developed software). Relevant patches and updates must be applied immediately (see M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates). Modifications to the configuration must be carried out carefully (see M 4.78 Careful Carrying out of Configuration Changes). The integrity of the software must be checked regularly (see M 4.93 Regular Integrity Check).



###segregation
Individually developed software should be treated in the same way as standard software (see B 1.10 Standard Software and B 5.25 General Applications).



###emergency preparedness
In order to prevent possible failures, precautionary measures must be taken (see M 6.164 Emergency Preparedness for Software Development). To ensure that the software development does not delay in the event of unexpected data losses on the development systems, the development data must be regularly secured (see M 6.32 Regular data backup).



