#B 5.3 Groupware
## Description 
Groupware refers to applications that help to support and organize workflows and business processes in IT workgroups. The main focus of Groupware is the support of working groups in cooperation, scheduling, coordination and daily communication. The term groupware system comprises the groupware application server, the associated groupware clients and the required groupware services.

Groupware is intended, among other things, in institutions for the internal and external exchange of messages, such as. E-mails to enable messages can therefore be managed, delivered, filtered and sent with groupware. Likewise, typical communication applications such as newsgroups, calendars and task lists as well as unified messaging are offered and managed by groupware systems.

The range of functions of groupware systems varies considerably, one of the basic functions is generally e-mail, so this module also covers general security requirements for e-mail systems.

Software for groupware systems is offered by many manufacturers. Examples include Microsoft Exchange and Outlook (see B 5.12 Microsoft Exchange / Outlook) and Lotus Notes (B 5.5 Lotus Notes / Domino). There are also many other groupware systems or components based on freely available sources.

This module considers general security aspects of groupware systems, regardless of the product used. This includes general security aspects of an e-mail system, encryption and digital signature, handling of active content, use of anti-virus software and much more. For product-specific security aspects, there are further components in the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs, which must also be applied to the respective groupware system.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

Security measures for groupware concern the clients used as well as servers operated in-house. Accordingly, the clients and servers must be secured. However, this is not part of this module. For their safe operation, the corresponding components of layer 3 are to be implemented. Of particular importance are the safety precautions and instructions to be followed by the users.

Groupware systems are generally used in the environment with other systems that control access to the internal network from outside. In particular, security gateways and systems for remote maintenance are to be mentioned, with which the groupware must work together. For this reason, during the implementation of the measures specific to the Groupware, the corresponding recommendations from the respective building blocks of additionally affected systems must always be taken into account. These include, among others, the following building blocks:

* B 3.301 Security gateway (firewall) if groupware systems are used in a firewall environment.
* B 4.4 VPN, if the access to the groupware system is made via VPN.


For the successful development of a groupware system, a series of measures have to be implemented, starting with strategic decisions, planning, conception and installation up to operation.



###Planning and conception
Once the decision has been made for a groupware system, the mission must be planned and designed. The aspects to be taken into account are summarized in the M 2.454 Planning of the secure use of groupware systems. The security of a groupware system can already be decisively influenced in the planning and design phase, taking account of security-relevant aspects.



###implementation
After the organizational and planning preparatory work has been carried out, the installation of a groupware system can take place. The measure M 4.356 Secure installation of groupware systems must be observed.

Measures for the specific user training can be found in M 3.74 Training on system architecture and security of groupware systems for administrators and M 3.75 Training on security mechanisms of groupware clients for users, as sufficient knowledge of users and administrators of groupware systems affect security.

The mere installation of a groupware system represents only a minor part of the work to be done in the implementation phase. The overwhelming amount of work is required after installation due to the initial configuration of the groupware system. The first configuration defines the basic security for the startup and the framework conditions for the future security of the groupware system.

The secure administration must be planned (see M 2.456 Secure administration of groupware systems).

Groupware systems are distributed and communicate via different interfaces with each other or with other external client or server systems. Therefore, it is important to secure the communication appropriately. In general, a groupware system can use many different communication channels, which also depend on the installed applications and modules. However, as a rule, a few basic communication mechanisms and interfaces are used. The relevant entry-level system is M 2.456 Secure administration of groupware systems.



###business
After the initial installation and a test operation phase, normal operation is started. In order to detect security problems promptly, the groupware system must be adequately monitored. Hints can be found in M 4.358 Logging of groupware systems.

Since a groupware system is always subject to changes that are usually derived from changed requirements or application scenarios, it must be ensured that the desired level of security is maintained (see M 2.221 Change Management or B 1.14 Patch) - and change management).



###emergency preparedness
In parallel with the operational phase, emergency preparedness must ensure that operation can be maintained even in an emergency. Information security management and auditing ensure that the rules are adhered to. Recommendations for emergency preparedness for groupware systems can be found in the M 6.140 Creating an emergency plan for the failure of groupware systems.

The group bundle for groupware is presented below:



