#B 5.17 Samba
## Description 
This module considers the basic security features of Samba. Samba is a freely available authentication, file and print service and enables interoperability between Microsoft Windows and the Unix world. Samba brings together a variety of different protocols and techniques. This includes, for example, the server message block protocol (SMB), also known under the newer name Common Internet File System (CIFS). Samba servers are servers on which Samba operates as an authentication, file and print service. These are usually Unix servers.

Samba consists of several components that provide different functions, the most important of which are listed below. The most important application for Samba is smbd. This provides logon, file and print services to other SMB clients. Furthermore there are the application nmbd, which offers different NetBIOS name services, and the application winbindd.

This module looks at Samba version 3. Differences between different version 3 minor version numbers are explicitly referenced, if necessary. This module is to be applied to every server of the considered information network on which Samba is operated as a server service.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

All security considerations for a Samba server should be based on the actions contained in B 3.101 General Server. Since Samba is generally used on a Unix operating system, the measures taken in the B 3.102 server under Unix must also be taken into account. The general measures described in these modules are specified and supplemented in the present module.



###Planning and conception
Once the general planning of the server deployment is complete, sub-concepts for using Samba, taking into account all applicable higher-level concepts and guidelines, must be created. The general planning procedure is explained in M 2.315 Server Use Planning. During the planning process important decisions about basic network services (eg WINS) have to be made. The decision regarding the design of the network services should be based on the measures set out in M .437 Planning the Use of a Samba Server.



###procurement
After completion of the conceptual planning work, the integrity and authenticity of the packages to be used for installation (source code or binary packages) must be checked (see M 4.327 Integrity and authenticity check) the Samba packages and sources).



###implementation
Before Samba is installed on the server computer, the operating system must first be suitably configured and secured (see M 4.331 Secure configuration of the operating system for a Samba server). During the actual installation and the following basic configuration, there are a number of points to consider in M 4.330 Securing a Samba server, M 4.326 Ensuring the NTFS properties on a Samba file server, M 4.332 Secure configuration of the Samba server Access Control on a Samba Server and M 5.151 Secure Configuration of the Samba Web Administration Tool are described. In addition, care should be taken to ensure that Samba does not incorporate any insecure external programs (see M .2.438 Safely Using External Programs on a Samba Server). As mentioned in M 2.437 Planning the Use of a Samba Server, under certain circumstances the actions mentioned under S .4.333 Secure Configuration of Winbind under Samba may also be relevant. Furthermore, the measures mentioned in M 4.329 Safe use of communication protocols when using a Samba server must be observed.

The administrators must be trained for the safe installation and operation of a Samba server. Important aspects that should cover such a training are described in M 3.68 Training the administrators of a Samba server.



###business
In normal operation, current documentation must be guaranteed. Furthermore, the aspects described in M 4.335 Safe Operation of a Samba Server are to be considered.



###emergency preparedness
Special considerations for a Samba server that need to be taken into account in addition to M 6.96 contingency provisioning for a server are M 6.135 Regular backup of critical system components of a Samba server and M 6.136 Create a contingency plan for the failure of a Samba server.

The package of measures for the Samba server is presented below. The measures from other relevant modules (for example, M 6.96 Emergency Preparedness for a Server from B 3.101 General Server) are not listed here for the sake of clarity.



