#B 5.2 Data medium exchange
## Description 
In this module, the exchange of digital but also analog data carriers is considered in order to transfer information between different communication partners and IT systems. Even with a broadband network connection, it may also be useful or necessary for electronic data exchange for various reasons to transmit data carriers for this purpose. One reason may be that there is no or no sufficiently trusted networking between the affected IT systems. Data carriers can be exchanged during personal meetings or by mail. Typically used data carriers are floppy disks, removable disks (magnetic, magneto-optical), CD-ROMs, DVDs, magnetic tapes, cassettes and also flash memories such as USB sticks and USB hard disks. It should not be forgotten that paper documents are also data carriers for which the same security requirements must be observed, depending on the protection requirements of the respective information.

In addition, this module also takes into account the storage of the data on the transmitter and receiver system, insofar as it is directly related to the data carrier exchange, as well as the handling of the data carriers before or after the transfer ,



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

A number of measures have to be implemented for data exchange, from planning and conception to daily operation and emergency preparedness. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
In the run-up to the data medium exchange, it must be clarified and bindingly stipulated with which communication partners an exchange may take place, and in the data carrier administration the variants of data carriers are defined and marked, which are to be exchanged with external agencies to be provided. In addition, it is necessary to specify how the data carriers are to be protected in their own institution, during transport and at the recipient.



###procurement
The selection of suitable data carriers must be coordinated with the communication partners. When deciding which types of data carriers are suitable, M 4.169 Use of appropriate archive media can be helpful.



###implementation
In order to minimize any possible damage caused by improper handling of the data carriers during transport, a suitable method of dispatch should be established which, depending on the data medium used (eg documents , CD-ROM, magnetic tape) can be quite different.



###business
When carrying out data exchange, there are a number of measures to be taken to prevent or mitigate possible damage. This includes the safe storage and packaging of the data carriers as well as a clear identification in order to reduce the likelihood of confusion. For general hygiene, digital data carriers must be checked for computer viruses prior to sending or transfer, and also after receipt.



###segregation
When exchanging magnetic media with different communication partners, these media should be physically erased before being used again to avoid transmitting information to the wrong recipient.



###emergency preparedness
Since it can never be ruled out that data carriers will be lost during transport, the transmitted data should at least be retained locally in a copy until the correct receipt of the data carrier has been confirmed. Depending on the nature and purpose of the data exchange, a longer storage may be required as evidence for later conflicts.

The following is a description of the measures for data medium exchange.



