#B 5.23 Cloud Management
## Description 
Cloud Computing refers to the (scalable) dynamically adapted to the needs, offering and billing of IT services over a network. The offer and use of these services are made exclusively via defined technical interfaces and protocols.

The cloud management module is aimed at cloud service providers. It makes no difference whether they offer their cloud services (cloud services) internally (private cloud) or externally (public cloud) and which service model (infrastructure as a service, platform as a service or software as a service) they want have.

An essential task of the cloud service provider is the cloud management, ie provision, management and operation of the cloud services offered (cloud services).

To describe the operating processes of cloud management, a cloud computing reference model is used that covers the essential aspects of cloud computing. The building block is based on the reference model (Cloud Reference Framework) of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), which is available as a so-called Internet Draft when the building block is created.

The reference model is built in layers for cloud services, virtualization (virtual machines running the cloud services), and physical components (as the carriers of the virtual machines) and describes their interaction. These layers are called horizontal layers.

In addition to these layers, the reference model introduces cloud management as a vertical layer that affects all horizontal layers. In particular, security (ie security management and security measures) belongs to cloud management.

Typical tasks of cloud service providers in cloud management include:

* the provision of a service catalog describing the cloud services offered;
* Provisioning (provisioning) and / or provisioning of cloud resources (including: virtual machines, virtual data stores, virtual networks) and cloud service profiles (defined configurations for cloud resources that provide the services offered become);
* the allocation of the physical and virtual resources to the cloud users and the configuration of these resources;
* access and access management for cloud resources and authentication of access and access;
* the monitoring of the provided cloud services and resources in order to comply with the agreed services;
* Customer accountable billing for the cloud services used (using the Services Catalog).


The cloud management and the necessary processes are described in Knowledge Management M 4.446 Introduction to Cloud Management.

Cloud management not only consists of activities that are only or specifically involved in cloud computing, but also those that are generally related to IT management or IT services. In particular, these are:

* Security management,
* Strungsmanagement,
* System and application management,
* Network management,
* Separation of components and safe deletion / annihilation,
* Emergency preparedness.


Thematic delimitation

The purpose of this module is to provide recommendations for secure provisioning, management and operation of cloud services. It describes meaningful and appropriate cloud management security requirements that protect the services and underlying information, applications, and systems from the cloud.

The module identifies concrete and detailed threats and measures for cloud management. Where cloud management overlaps with the general management of IT operations and IT services (see above), it is limited to those specific to cloud computing.

At the heart of the cloud management component are the security aspects associated with the original features of cloud computing, such as multi-tenancy, orchestration and automation of processes, and provisioning and deprovisioning IT resources.

First and foremost, the threats and actions of this building block are directed to cloud service providers that provide private cloud services to businesses and governments. The basic security recommendations are also applicable to public cloud services and hybrid cloud offerings (sharing of multiple cloud infrastructures via standardized interfaces), whereby the cloud usage component must also be taken into account here.

Security measures that can be used to protect cloud applications themselves are not the subject of this module, but are described in building blocks B 5.21 Web applications and B 5.24 Web services. Security aspects that are relevant when using cloud services are also not considered in this module. Please refer to the module B 1.17 Cloud Usage. Nor does the building block cover the underlying IT systems (virtual and physical) and applications and their management. Again, reference is made to the corresponding blocks, z. B.f r virtualization, network management and storage solutions.



## Countermeasures 
In order to secure an information network, additional blocks must be implemented in addition to this block, according to the results of the modeling after IT-Grundschutz.

In order to map a cloud infrastructure into the IT-Grundschutz, various elements have to be considered: physical components (hardware), virtualization servers, virtual machines (IaaS) and cloud applications (PaaSundSaaS). For the modeling of cloud management, these elements should be considered as follows:

* Physical components (hardware): For the hardware of the cloud infrastructure (such as servers and connected storage systems), the appropriate IT-Grundschutz modules of layer 3 must be used (eg BB 3.101 General server or B 3.303 storage unit) solutions / cloud storage).
* Virtualization Server: The B 3.304 virtualization building block is to be applied to any virtualization server or group of virtualization servers. A virtualization server is a physical IT system (client or server) running virtual IT systems. In addition to the B 3.304 virtualization module, the relevant server or client modules of layer 3 must also be applied to the virtualization servers. The cloud management module is modeled on the server for the cloud infrastructure management software.
* Virtual machines: Virtual IT systems (virtual machines, VMs) are modeled using the building blocks from the IT-Grundschutz catalogs. VMs are basically modeled in the same way as physical IT systems, that is, they become the relevant building blocks the layers 3 and 5 used. Since it often happens in practice that many VMs are set up, a sensible modeling of the VMs is often only possible by means of suitable group formation.
* Cloud applications: Cloud applications are mapped using the relevant components of layer 5 with reference to the respective virtual machines. Here are z. For example, building blocks such as B 5.7 databases, B 5.4 web server or B 5.21 web applications are modeled.


Further notes on the modeling of virtual IT systems can be found in the M 2.524 Modeling of Cloud Management Model).



###Planning and conception
When designing an environment for cloud computing, a number of framework conditions must be considered. On the one hand, the physical and virtual IT infrastructures need to be planned for efficient deployment. When selecting components, attention must be paid to suitability, compatibility, and ease of management (M 4.436 Planning Cloud Resource Resources).

On the other hand, cloud service profiles must be developed. In particular, care should be taken to ensure that the (automatic) scalability of the resources is ensured (M 4.437 Planning of Cloud Service Profiles). Cloud service profiles are defined in a set of information that describes the cloud resources and the underlying configuration. In particular, their (automatic) scalability must be taken into account in cloud service profiles.



###procurement
When selecting hardware for cloud environments, care should be taken to procure systems suitable for smooth collaboration of virtualization solution, hardware, and cloud management software. The systems must be powerful enough to provide sufficient performance (computing power, throughput, response times) for all cloud services used by cloud users at the agreed times (M 4.438 Selection of Cloud components).



###implementation
Once planning and procurement have been completed, the cloud components (cloud infrastructure and access paths) must be securely configured. Since access to cloud services is mostly web-based via insecure networks, the access paths must be secured (M 5.174 Securing communication with cloud access).

Before cloud services are offered, the responsible administrators must be trained in the secure operation of the cloud components (M 3.91 Training Cloud Infrastructure Administrators).



###business
When running cloud computing platforms, cloud management provides provisioning and deprovisioning of cloud resources, automation of processes, client separation, and monitoring of cloud resources deployed.

The cloud management ensures the correct and efficient setting of the cloud infrastructure and the services in the operation of the cloud services. An important element here is the regulated orchestration, ie the provisioning and deprovisioning of cloud resources (M 2.521 Regulated provisioning and de-provisioning of cloud services). Here, the cloud components are configured and the configuration settings are checked regularly.

Automation brings great flexibility and operational convenience, but at the same time it has great potential for damage in the event of misconfigurations in the cloud management software. Therefore, careful controls must be set up and implemented (M 2.523 Secure automation of cloud rule processes).

A central requirement for cloud offerings is client separation, ie the secure separation of applications, IT systems and data from different cloud users. Such security measures for separation can be set up on different layers of IT-Grundschutz (eg networks, storage networks, virtualization) and therefore also implemented via building blocks of other layers. Cloud management must ensure across-the-board that client separation works consistently across all components of the cloud infrastructure (M .4.445 Consistent client separation of cloud services).

Since the cloud infrastructure is highly integrated and has central cloud management, central logging must be implemented and block B 5.22 Logging implemented. Here, specific measures for logging and monitoring of cloud resources, cloud performance and cloud service usage must be taken into account (M 4.443 logging and monitoring of events in the cloud infrastructure). On the one hand, it is important for the cloud service provider to control the utilization and use of its resources, in order to detect bottlenecks if necessary, but also to prove to the cloud users the promised services (M 2.522 Reporting and Communication to the cloud users).



###emergency preparedness
Services (availability, downtime) are agreed in the contracts between cloud users and cloud service providers. In order to be able to provide the agreed services, the emergency management and in particular the emergency preparedness should also be integrated into the cloud management.

It can take over existing components of the emergency provision of the cloud service provider, also from other parts of its IT operations for the cloud management and, if necessary, expand it with cloud-specific components (M 6.152 emergency preparedness and regular data backup in cloud computing).

The following is the measure of action for cloud management.



