#B 5.8 Teleworking
## Description 
Teleworking is understood to mean any activity based on information and communication technology, which is carried out exclusively or occasionally outside the building of the employer or client. The completion of the activities is supported by a communication technology connection to the IT of the work or client.

There are different forms of teleworking. So it can be provided as a home-based teleworking in the employee's home or as mobile teleworking on the go. It is also possible for employees to be employed by customers or suppliers as part of on-site telework and to work there with the equipment of their own employer. Another option is teleworking in so-called telecentres or satellite or neighborhood offices.

In home-based telework, a distinction is made between work done exclusively at home and alternating telework. In the case of alternating teleworking, employees work alternately at their workplace at the employer and at their home office.

This building block focuses on the forms of telework that are carried out partly or wholly in the home environment. It is assumed that there is a telecommunication link between the workplace at home and the institution, which allows the exchange of data or, where appropriate, access to data in the institution.

The recommended measures for this module comprise four different areas:

* the organization of telework,
* the teleworker's teleworker,
* the communication link between teleworker and institution and
* the communication computer of the institution for the connection of the teleworking computer.


The recommended measures outlined in this module focus on additional security requirements for the IT systems used for teleworking as well as information processed during teleworking. In particular for the technical components of telework (teleworking computer, communication connection and communication computer), safety requirements are formulated, which must be realized in the concrete embodiment by suitable IT systems.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For the safe use of teleworking, a series of measures are to be implemented, beginning with the planning and conception through to procurement and emergency preparedness. The steps to be taken and the actions to be followed in each step are listed below. Measures for infrastructural safety of the teleworking station are described in module B 2.8 Domestic workstation. For the IT system used as a teleworking computer, the appropriate client component must also be implemented.



###Planning and conception
A teleworking concept should be developed outlining the security objectives, the protection needs of teleworking information, and the risks and security measures (see M 2.117 Towards a security approach to teleworking).

Secure teleworking requires organizational regulations and personnel measures. Particular attention should be paid to the special obligations of teleworkers and their instruction in the terms of use of communications. They are described in the following measures:

* M 2.113 Regulations for teleworking
* M 2.116 Regulated use of communication options for teleworking
* M 2.117 Creation of a security concept for teleworking
* M 3.21 Safety training of teleworkers




###implementation
After the organizational and planning preparatory work has been completed, the telework computers, communication computers and other IT systems can be installed. The following measures must be observed:

* Safety of the teleworking computer: The teleworking computer must be designed in such a way that safe use is possible in an unsafe operating environment. In particular, only an authorized person may use the teleworker offline and online. In particular, the safety requirements from M 4.63 Safety requirements for the teleworking computer must be observed.
* Secure communication between the teleworking computer and the institution: Since the communication is carried out via public networks (that is, for example, via ISDN or DSL connections), special security requirements must be met for communication between the teleworking computer and the institution. They are described in M 5.51 Safety Requirements for the Communication Link Teleworking Computer - Institution. For the connection of the teleworking computer via public networks, module B 4.5 LAN connection of an IT system via ISDN must be observed. For the connection of the teleworking computer via a Virtual Private Network (VPN), the block B 4.4 VPN must be observed.
* Security of the institution's communication computer: This computer provides a quasi-publicly accessible interface through which the teleworker can use the IT and the institution's data. Since misuse by third parties must be prevented here, special security requirements must be fulfilled, which are described in M 5.52 Safety requirements for the communication computer.




###business
Users have a significant impact on telework safety. Teleworkers therefore have to be trained to comply with security requirements and to use the IT systems (see M 3.21 Teleworker safety briefing).



###emergency preparedness
All relevant data created or modified during teleworking must be saved (see M 6.47 Teleworking data backup).

In the following the toolbox for teleworking is presented.



