#B 5.6 Fax server
## Description 
The information transmission in the form of a fax is considered. For the selection of measures in the area IT-Grundschutz, a distinction is not made according to the used transmission standard (eg CCITTGroup 3). In this module only fax servers are considered as technical basis of the fax traffic. A fax server in this sense is an application which is installed on an IT system and makes the services fax sending and / or fax reception available in a network for other IT systems.

Fax servers are usually integrated into existing e-mail systems. That's the way it is. It is possible that incoming fax documents will be delivered to the user by the fax server via e-mail. Documents to be sent are either handed over to the fax server via a print queue or by e-mail. By integrating the fax server in an e-mail system, it is also possible to send serial letters either by fax or by e-mail. If an addressee has an e-mail account, he will receive the message by e-mail, otherwise by fax. The document sent or received by a fax server is a graphics file that can not be further processed directly in word processing systems. However, archiving is definitely possible. This can be done by the fax server software or in document management systems.

Fax server is available for a number of operating systems such as. B. for various Unix derivatives, Microsoft Windows and Novell Netware. Considerations on dangers and measures that are caused by the operating system used are not the subject of this module. Instead, the block B 3.101 General Server and the respective operating system-specific block are to be processed.

Fax servers often have the binary transfer mode. This will transfer any data that is not in fax format. These are not fax transmissions. Therefore, specific hazards and actions affecting this service are not considered in this building block. If the Binary Transfer Mode is permitted, the B 4.3 Modem module is also to be processed.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

First of all, a general security guideline should be worked out for the fax server (see M 2.178 Creating a security guideline for fax usage) and a suitable fax server should be procured (see M 2.181 Selection of a suitable fax server). From this rules have to be derived. Finally, the persons responsible for the use of the fax server must be named (see M 3.10 Selection of a trusted administrator and representative and M 2.180 Setting up a fax post office). Both the security guideline and the resulting rules and the designation of responsible persons should be in writing. The provisions worked out there should then be translated into concrete safety measures. In addition to the secure operation of the fax server, it is of particular importance that users comply with the appropriate security precautions and instructions.

The following is a description of the measures for the application Faxserver:



