#B 5.4 Web server
## Description 
The Internet is one of the central media of today's information society. The information offered on the Internet is provided by servers, which deliver data, mostly documents in the form of HTML pages, to corresponding client programs. This is typically done via the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTPS) or HTTPS (HTTP over SSL or TLS), i.e. HTTP protected by an encrypted connection. In addition to being used on the Internet, web servers are also increasingly being used for internal information and applications in company networks (intranet). One reason for this is that they offer a simple and standardized interface between server applications and users and that corresponding client software (web browser) is available free of charge for virtually any operating system environment.

The term Web server (or WWW server) is usually used both for the program that answers the HTTP requests and for the computer on which this program is running. Web servers have different security aspects to consider.

Because a web server is a publicly accessible system, careful planning prior to building a web server and securely installing and configuring the system and its network environment are of great importance. The topic of security also includes a relatively large number of areas for web servers, because on a web server, in addition to the pure web server application, there are also other server applications that are necessary for the operation of the web server and whose secure operation can also be ensured got to. For example, the data is usually transferred to the server via the network (for example via FTP or SCP) or access to a database is required.

The provision of dynamic content and far-reaching functions are realized by web applications that are not the subject of this module.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

This module describes the threats and actions specific to a web server. In addition, for the security of the server used, the B 3.101 General Server module must be used, as well as, depending on the operating system used, for example, the B 3.102 server modules under Unix or B 3.108 Windows Server 2003. If the website contains content If a web application dynamically generates a database from a database, the module B 5.7 Database must also be taken into account. In particular, if the web server can be addressed from the Internet, module B 1.8 Treatment of security incidents should also be taken into account. If web applications are offered on the web server, the actions of block B 5.21 Web applications must be implemented.

For the secure connection of a web server to public networks (eg the internet), module B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall) has to be considered, as well as for the merger of several intranets into one comprehensive intranet. The controlled connection of external connection points (eg of teleworking stations viaISDN) is teleworked in block B 5.8.

A web server should be placed in a separate server room. The measures to be implemented are described in B 2.4 Server Room. If no server room is available, the web server can alternatively be set up in a server cabinet (see block B 2.7 Protective cabinets). If the web server is not operated by the organization itself, but by an external service provider, then module B 1.11 Outsourcing must be considered.

A number of measures have to be implemented for the successful and secure construction of a web server. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Before a web server is set up, a web server security strategy should describe which security measures have to be implemented and to what extent (see M 2.173 Defining a web server security strategy).

An important aspect of the security of a web server is already relevant before it even exists: Planning and organization of the web offer. Only when it has been clarified which goals are to be achieved with the web offer and which contents or applications are offered for this purpose can appropriate measures be taken to ensure that security problems are avoided as far as possible , The aspect of security must therefore be taken into account very early in the planning phase in order to design the resulting architecture accordingly (see M 2.172 Development of a concept for web offers).

In addition, the information must be regularly maintained and updated. In the management of a website are often involved in multiple organizational units, often the technical and content support from various agencies. For the smoothest possible functioning of the web offer appropriate organizational framework conditions must therefore be created. Ideally, an editorial office should be set up for the website (M 2.272 creation of an Internet editorial team).

When planning and designing how to provide the information to the web server, active content should be avoided (see M 4.360 Secure Configuration of a Web Server).



###procurement
A web server can also be operated via a service provider. Based on the web server security strategy and the resulting requirements, a suitable provider must be selected (see M 2.176 Suitable Selection of an Internet Service Provider).



###implementation
After the planning has been completed and the web server application is installed on the operating system of the server, the web server must be set up securely (see M 2.175 Structure of a web server) and configured (see M 4.360 Secure configuration of a web server). The files and directories on a web server must be protected against unauthorized changes, but possibly also against unauthorized read access (see M 4.94 Protection of the web server files).



###business
After the web server has been installed and configured, normal operation is started. The M 2.174 Secure operation of a web server should ensure that the relevant systems of the information network are kept up to date. For this, the web server must be regularly updated (see M 2.273 Timely Import of Security-Relevant Patches and Updates) and the updates must be checked for tampering (see M 4.177 Ensuring Integrity and Authenticity of Software Packages).



###emergency preparedness
Only a regular and comprehensive data backup ensures reliably that all stored data can be made available again in case of breakdowns, failures of the hardware or (intentional or unintentional) deletions can. The necessary measures are described in block B 1.4 Data backup concept.

In the context of emergency preparedness, a concept should be drafted to minimize the consequences of a failure and what to do in the event of a failure. For this, an emergency plan for the web server must be created (see M 6.88 Creating an emergency plan for the web server). In addition, the measures of module "B" 1.3 Emergency Management should be taken into account.

Below, the package of measures for the web server area is presented. A repetition of measures of other blocks is omitted here for redundancy reasons.



