#B 5.20 OpenLDAP
## Description 
This module describes the basic security features of OpenLDAP. OpenLDAP is a freely available directory service that provides information on any objects, such as users or computers, in a defined manner in a data network. The information may include simple attributes such as the names or numbers of objects, or even complex formats such as photos or certificates for electronic signatures. Typical fields of application are, for example, address books or user administrations.

OpenLDAP is a reference implementation for a server as part of the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP). OpenLDAP is available as open source software for a variety of operating systems.

Demarcation of the module

This module considers the hazards and actions specific to OpenLDAP. It is based on version 2.4 of OpenLDAP. General security recommendations for directory services can be found in module B 5.15 General directory service. The measures described there are concretised and supplemented in the present module. This module is applicable to every server of the considered information network on which the slapd daemon is operated by OpenLDAP.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, additional modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

In order to adequately secure the data processed with OpenLDAP, the underlying server operating system must be adequately protected. Its protection is not part of this module, but is treated in the corresponding building blocks of layer B 3. If, for example, Unix is ??used as a platform, the module B 3.102 Server under Unix must be taken into consideration.

For the safe use of OpenLDAP, a series of measures has to be implemented, beginning with the conception through the installation to the operation. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Once the general planning of the directory service has been completed, sub-concepts for the use of OpenLDAP, taking into account all applicable higher-level concepts and guidelines, must be created. As a start, it is recommended to first consider the measure M 3.85 Introduction in OpenLDAP, which provides an overview of the structure and concepts of OpenLDAP. The general procedure is explained in M 2.484 Planning by OpenLDAP. During the planning, important decisions about the use of backends have to be made, see M 2.485 Selection of backends for OpenLDAP. Before OpenLDAP is set up, a specific security policy for OpenLDAP must be created in advance (see M 2.405 Creating a security policy for the use of directory services).



###procurement
After completion of the conceptual planning work, the integrity and authenticity of the packages to be used for installation (source code or binary packages) must be checked (see M 4.382 Selection and Checking of the OpenLDAP Installation Packages).



###implementation
Before OpenLDAP is installed on an IT system, its operating system must first be properly configured and secured. In addition, necessary support programs identified in the planning must be installed. During the actual installation and the subsequent basic configuration, a number of points must be taken into account that M in4.383 Secure installation of OpenLDAP, M 4.384 Secure configuration of OpenLDAP, M 4.385 Configuration of the database used by OpenLDAP, M 4.386 p Addition of Attributes in OpenLDAP, M 4.387 Secure Assignment of Access to OpenLDAP, M 4.388 Secure Authentication versus OpenLDAP, and M 4.389 Partitioning and Replication in OpenLDAP.

Safe installation of OpenLDAP is not a one-time process. Instead, the software must be kept up-to-date as described in the M 4.390 Safe Update of OpenLDAP.

The administrators must be trained for the safe installation and operation of OpenLDAP. Key aspects that should cover such training are described in M 3.86 Training OpenLDAP administrators.



###business
In normal operation, current documentation must be guaranteed. Furthermore, in addition to the underlying operating system, OpenLDAP itself must be administered with care (see M 4.391 Secure Operation of OpenLDAP). In order to be able to detect emerging problems in good time, the corresponding measure M 4.407 Logging should be taken into account when using OpenLDAP. In order to protect the confidentiality and integrity of the transmitted data, secure communication between the OpenLDAP server and the clients must always be maintained (see M 5.170 Secure communication connections when using OpenLDAP).



###segregation
Aspects that have to be taken into account in the regulated rejection of an OpenLDAP installation are described in measure M 2.410 Regulated Decommissioning of a Directory Service.



###emergency preparedness
Aspects of contingency planning for OpenLDAP are discussed in M 6.106 Creating a contingency plan for a directory service failure. The procedure for data backup in OpenLDAP is described in M 6.150 Data backup when using OpenLDAP.

The following is a description of the action box for the OpenLDAP module:



