#B 5.7 Databases
## Description 
Database systems (DBS) are a widely used tool for the computer-aided organization, generation, modification and management of large data collections and provide the central information base for their task fulfillment in many companies and organizations. A DBS consists of the so-called database management system (DBMS) and one or more databases.

A database is a collection of data together with their description (metadata), which are stored persistently in the DBS.

The DBMS forms the interface between the databases and serves the users for data management and change. The central tasks of a DBMS are essentially the provision of various views of the data (views), the consistency check of the data (integrity assurance), the authorization check, the treatment of simultaneous accesses of different users (synchronization) and the provision of a data backup Possibility to recover data promptly in case of system failure.

Modern database systems are predominantly part of a 3-tier architecture. As an extension of the 2-tier architecture (client / server architecture), an application server for deploying the database applications is introduced here as the third level between client and server. This architecture can achieve cost savings due to reduced client equipment and simplified database administration, especially in software distribution. In this way, users can be provided with new software versions with little effort, which are automatically obtained by the user from the database system via the application server.



A database system must enable the parallel processing of various user orders (so-called transactions). Essential for this is compliance with the following four properties, which are known under the ACID principle:

* Atomicity A transaction is the smallest unit of processing that can not be decomposed, and is executed only in full or not at all. If an error occurs or is aborted during execution, all changes to the database that have already been made in the transaction will be canceled.
* Consistency A transaction always transfers a database from one consistent state to another consistent state, i. all integrity conditions of the database are complied with.
* Isolation Each transaction is isolated and in all respects independent of other transactions. This also means that only those data from the database that are part of a consistent state are made available to each transaction. If parallel transactions compete for resources, the transactions must be serialized.
* Persistence (Durability) The results of a successfully completed transaction remain persistent in the database.


Database systems are standard software and are offered by a wide range of manufacturers on the market. If a database is to be used for processing data, then in the first step a suitable DBS is to be selected. The associated hazards and measures from the module B 1.10 standard softwares are therefore to be observed.

Databases can not be seen detached from the environment in which they are used. A single-user PC is just as conceivable as a mainframe environment or networked Unix or Windows systems. Accordingly, depending on the field of use, the building blocks of the corresponding layers 3 to 5 have to be taken into account.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

As a central information store of a public agency or a company, it is recommended to set up the database server in a separate server room or to place it in a central data center. The measures to be implemented are described in the blocks B 2.4 server room and B 2.9 data center.

If the database server is installed in a protective cabinet, block B 2.7 Protective devices must be taken into account when implementing the procedure.

If mobile devices such as appropriately equipped mobile phones or PDAs are to be used for accessing a database, the components B 3.404 mobile phone or B 3.405 smartphones, tablets and PDAs must be taken into account.

The structure of the security measures of this module is based on the life cycle of a database system. The safe use of database systems should include the following steps:



###1. Planning
Database systems are complex products whose use and operation must be planned systematically. This includes, among other things, a catalog of requirements for the software to be procured (see M 2.80 Creation of a requirements catalog for standard software) and a database security concept (see M 2.126 Creating a database security concept).



###2. Training of administrators and procurement of the software
Before the database software can be used productively, the responsible administrators must be trained for the safe operation of the database system (see M 3.11 Training of maintenance and administration personnel). If possible, this training should be carried out prior to the procurement of the database system (see M 2.124 Appropriate selection of database software), so that the responsible administrators can be effectively involved in the conception and the structure in a timely manner ,



###3. Creation of a database concept / database model
Prior to the productive operation of the database system, a database concept is to be created which describes both the installation and configuration of the database components and the structure of the application-specific database. In addition, a practice-oriented user concept has to be created. Depending on the volume and area of ??application of the database as well as the selected database standard software, such a concept can be very extensive (M 2.125 installation and configuration of a database, M 2.126 creation of a database security concept, M 2.128 access control of a database and M 2.129 access control) Database).



###4. Operation of the database system
In addition to the implementation of the database concept, commissioning and operation of the database system requires continuous monitoring in order to ensure the availability, integrity and confidentiality of the data. The most important measures concern the aspects of documentation (M 2.31 documentation of authorized users and rights profiles, M 2.34 documentation of the changes to an existing system), administration (M 2.130 guarantee of database integrity, M 2.133 Control of the log files of a database system) as well as the use of the database (M 2.65 Checking the effectiveness of the user separation at the IT system, M 3.18 Obligation of the user to log off after task completion).



###5. Emergency preparedness
In addition to the implementation of measures for the introduction and the trouble-free operation of a database system, precipitations of various types must be prevented and their effects minimized as far as possible. For this purpose, the database-specific conditions must be taken into account in order to meet the requirements for a timely restart of the DBS after a system or database failure and to minimize the risk of data loss (M 6.49 Data backup of a database, M 6.50 Archiving of Datenbestnden).

The following is a description of the action block for the database module:



