#B 5.25 General applications
## Description 
In companies and authorities, business processes or specialized procedures are operated, which are supported by specialized application software (applications for short). For this purpose, there are no specific IT-Grundschutz modules in the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs, ie no specific hazardous situations and measures. At the same time, however, many components of Layer 1 describe a comprehensive management framework, ie processes and process models that are relevant for all phases of the life cycle when applications are used. In particular, here are:

Basically:

* B 1.3 Emergency Management
* B 1.4 Data backup concept
* B 1.9 Hardware and Software Management
* B 1.10 standard software
* B 1.14 Patch and change management
* B 1.16 Requirements Management


If necessary:

* B 1.7 Crypto Concept
* B 1.11 Outsourcing
* B 1.12 Archiving


With a few exceptions, these building blocks and the actions they take are focused on information security management and IT operations management. The perspective of those responsible for the selection, commissioning, operation and rejection of an application takes a back seat.

From the point of view of those responsible for applications, this module summarizes essential requirements for information security. It references essential measures from the above-mentioned modules and thus refers to the processes described there. If these processes lead to framework concepts in the respective ISMS, for example for the use of encryption, data backup or emergency preparedness, then it makes sense to update these concepts in relation to the particular application under consideration.

This building block covers the following types of applications:

* Individual software created by internal or external developers,
* Standard software with own adjustments, for example by program modifications or by development of specific modules (customizing) and
* Standard software that is used as supplied by the manufacturer and configured only according to the specialized tasks and the security specifications.


The focus of this module is on complex applications that are designed for specific technical tasks, such as personnel management software or methods for managing social data or financial reporting. Specialist or cross-functional standard software that is not technically focused and how office applications can be used for many industries is handled in B 1.10 standard software.

Depending on the type of application, some of the measures proposed in this module may be dispensable.

Regardless of the business process or administrative process in which the application is deployed, this module describes significant cross-border threats and standard security measures. It is possible to add this block to specific building blocks for specific applications, such as the already established building blocks B 5.13 SAP System and B 5.21 web applications.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, in addition to this module, further modules have to be implemented, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For applications, a number of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the planning of the deployment from procurement to its commissioning and emergency preparedness. The steps that should be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
Before a new application is procured or programmed, the basic conditions for use must be clarified (see M 2.546 Analysis of the requirements for new applications). This includes M 2.547 Identification and documentation of legal bases for applications.

Depending on the application, an application can be purchased ready, which may need to be adapted, or it must be developed a special application software. To this end, a catalog of requirements (see M 2.80 Creation of a requirement catalog for standard software) or a specification sheet (see M 2.548 Creation of a specification) should be prepared.



###procurement
On the basis of the concrete requirements of the catalog of requirements, it can be checked whether a product available on the market is suitable for the intended use. Otherwise, other solutions should be considered, for example, external service providers could be commissioned to develop suitable application software (see also M 2.551 Implementation of a suitable and legally compliant procurement procedure).

If the institution relies on service providers for the procurement, development or operation of the application, suitable contractual framework conditions should be established (see M 2.554 Appropriate contract design for procurement, development and operational support for applications).



###implementation
Based on the specifications, a specification sheet has to be prepared for the application development (see M 2.552 Preparation of a specification). Within the scope of the specification, a number of subconcepts are to be considered. These should include the maintenance of the application (see M 2.553 Development of a care concept for applications), the appropriate treatment of user authentication (see M 2.555 Development of an authentication concept for applications) and logging (see M 2.500 Logging of IT systems). Systems).

When commissioning the application, test and release (see M 2.556 Planning and Implementation of Test and Release of Applications), the safe installation (see M 4.463 Secure Installation of an Application) as well as the appropriate training of administrators and users (see M  3.4 Training before use of the program).



###business
During the operation phase of an application care must be taken to ensure safety (see M 4.464 Maintaining safety during operation).



###segregation
If an application is migrated to a new operational infrastructure, or if the application is finally decommissioned, uninstalling (see M 2.89 Uninstalling Standard Software), erasure, and destruction is in the decommissioned operational environment data that is no longer required (see M 2.167 Selection of suitable methods for deleting or destroying data) and decommissioning of the previous operational infrastructure (see M 4.234 Regulated Take-Up of IT Systems and Data Carriers) to plan and implement.



###emergency preparedness
Notes on the application-specific planning of emergency preparedness are summarized in measure M 6.158 Emergency preparedness for applications. If the application has been developed by service providers and if lack of support by the service provider, for example due to insolvency, could endanger the existence of the institution, a deposit of the source code is recommended (see M 6.137 Fiduciary deposit (escrow)) , In the case of high protection requirements with regard to availability, the creation of a availability concept is recommended (see M 6.157 Development of a redundancy concept for applications).



