#B 5.19 Internet usage
## Description 
In most institutions today the use of internet services in the workplace is a matter of course and necessary. These include, for example, e-mail, the use of information services and Internet services, online banking, e-commerce and e-government applications. Depending on the nature of the tasks and the workplace, the use of instant messaging, social networks, web conferencing and other services may be added.

Most Internet services can be accessed through browsers or other applications that already exist in standard operating systems. In some scenarios, the use of Internet services requires special software such as the use of instant messaging, reading news or online banking.

This module is always to be used if the Internet is to be accessed with a browser or special software (except e-mail). The block does not handle networks and other connections. For these the appropriate building blocks are to be used. The secure integration of e-mail is described in block B 5.3 Groupware.

This module describes the hazards and actions specific to Internet usage. In addition, other components such as the corresponding building blocks for networks and B 3.301 security gateway (firewall) and B 1.6 protection against malicious programs must be implemented for the secure connection to the Internet. To protect the clients, the B 3.201 Generic Clients block, as well as possibly an OS-specific block, must be implemented. Not considered in this module are independent Internet PCs (see B 3.208 Internet PC), which form a special form of Internet use.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For the safe use of the Internet, the following steps should be taken in a company or in a public agency with regard to information security:



###Planning and conception
At the beginning, basic questions of internet usage have to be defined, for example which internet services should be used in the institution, who can use which internet services, which rules have to be observed and how the internal IT systems, who are allowed to use the Internet are to be protected (see M 2.457 Conception for Secure Internet Use).

Secure Internet use requires a binding policy, including, for example, who can use which Internet services when and for what purpose (see M 2.458 Guidelines for Internet Use). For e-mail, there is a separate building block that contains a policy for e-mail usage.



###implementation
Both users and administrators have a significant impact on secure Internet usage. Users and administrators must therefore be trained in the handling of the IT components used or the use of the Internet services (see M 3.77 Awareness for secure Internet use).



###business
Depending on the security requirements, the involved IT components must be configured differently. This concerns the security gateways and the network coupling elements, but also the servers and clients. For the clients, in particular, the browser used (see M 5.45 Secure use of browsers and M 5.155 privacy aspects in Internet use), the e-mail client (see also block B 5.3 Groupware) and the software for the used web applications.



###emergency preparedness
Since the Internet use can be operationally critical, a failure is to be prevented. For this purpose, alternative methods for Internet applications must be defined (see M 6.141 Definition of alternative methods for Internet use). In addition, reactions to security incidents caused by Internet usage must be determined (see also module B 1.8 Handling security incidents).

The following is a description of the measures for the internet usage module.



