#B 5.12 Microsoft Exchange / Outlook
## Description 
Microsoft Exchange is an electronic messaging management system that also provides workflow support capabilities. It is intended, inter alia, in medium to large institutions, the internal and external exchange of messages such. E-mails. The messages can be managed, delivered, filtered and sent using Exchange. Likewise, typical communication applications such as newsgroups, calendars and to-do lists as well as unified messaging are offered and managed by Exchange.

Microsoft Outlook is an e-mail client that is part of the Microsoft Office suite. In addition to the pure e-mail functions, it offers a number of additional functions that are intended to facilitate business process transactions (eg communication, messaging) in companies and public authorities.

This module provides security recommendations that are typically related to the features of Microsoft Exchange 2010 or Microsoft Outlook 2010. They can also be used in similar form for pre and post versions.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, further modules must be implemented in addition to this module, according to the results of the modeling according to IT-Grundschutz.

For secure operation of a Microsoft Exchange system, general information security aspects of an e-mail system should also be considered, such as: These include, for example, the issue of Internet connectivity, possible underlying encryption measures, the handling of active content, the use of anti-virus software and much more. In this regard, reference is made to module B 5.3 groupware. The dangers and measures outlined there have unrestricted validity in the context of Microsoft Exchange / Outlook.

In addition to this module, tools are also published on the IT-Grundschutz web pages, which substantiate the information and security guidelines for Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 and Microsoft Outlook 2010. These tools are to be understood as detailed references to the actions listed here. Appropriate recommendations and safety measures for the current version of the component under consideration are formulated for all relevant measures.

The implementation of the aspects in the subsequent measures is governed by security requirements

* Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 and
* Microsoft Outlook 2010


in the aids to the IT-Grundschutz catalogs further explained and supported.

The security of Windows operating systems plays a central role in the security of Microsoft Exchange systems. This applies to the servers as well as the clients of the considered network. Accordingly, the security of the underlying operating system must be taken into account. The latter is not part of this module. Reference is therefore made to the corresponding descriptions for the secure operation of the operating system used in the modules of layer 3 of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs. Of particular importance are the safety precautions and instructions to be followed by the users.

An Exchange system is usually used in the environment with other systems that control access to the internal network from outside. These include, in particular, security gateways and remote maintenance systems with which Microsoft Exchange must work together. For this reason, during the implementation of the measures specific to Microsoft Exchange or Outlook, the corresponding recommendations from the respective components of additionally affected systems must always be taken into account. In addition to the building blocks of layer 3, the following building blocks must also be taken into consideration:

* B 3.301 Security gateway (firewall), if Exchange systems are used in DMZ environments.
* B 4.4 VPN, when accessing the Exchange system via VPN.


The steps that should be followed in each phase are listed below:



###Planning and conception phase
Once the decision has been made for an Exchange system, its secure deployment must be planned and designed. The aspects to be taken into consideration are summarized in M .2.247 Planning the Use of Exchange and Outlook. The security of an Exchange system can already be decisively influenced in the planning and design phase, taking account of security-relevant aspects.

Special attention should be given to planning security in such scenarios where Microsoft Exchange systems are used in typical Internet scenarios. M 2.481 Planning for the use of Exchange for Outlook Anywhere must be implemented here.



###implementation
After the organizational preparatory work has been carried out, the installation of a Microsoft Exchange system can take place. The procedure M 4.161 Secure installation of Exchange systems must be observed.

Users and administrators of Exchange systems must be adequately trained.

The mere installation of a Microsoft Exchange system represents only a minor part of the work to be done in the implementation phase. The majority of the work is done after the installation through the initial configuration of the Microsoft Exchange system. The initial configuration sets the baseline security of operations and the framework for the future security of the Microsoft Exchange system.

The core of every Microsoft Exchange system is the database and the tables it holds with the data. Database security issues always affect the overall security of the system. The recommendations for configuring Exchange servers and database are summarized in M 4.162 Secure Configuration of Exchange Servers.

Microsoft Exchange systems are distributed and therefore communicate with each other and with other external client or server systems through various interfaces. Securing the communication is therefore an important task (M 5.100 securing communication to and from Exchange systems).

A Microsoft Exchange system must be adapted to the local functional requirements (eg, business processes) of a service or company. This is done by the so-called customizing (adjustment to the customer), see M 2.483 Security when Customizing Exchange Systems.



###business
After the initial installation and a test operation phase, normal operation is started. In order for security advisories to be detected, a corresponding monitoring of the Microsoft Exchange system must be carried out (M 4.166 Secure operation of Exchange systems and M 2.482 Regular security checks for Exchange systems).

Since a Microsoft Exchange system is always subject to changes that usually derive from changing requirements or application scenarios, it must be ensured that the desired level of security is maintained (see also B 1.14 Patch and change management ). This is especially true for in-house developments (see M 2.379 Software development by end users).



###emergency preparedness
Recommendations for emergency preparedness for Microsoft Exchange systems can be found in the M 4.166 Secure Exchange System Operation.



