#B 5.26 Service-oriented architecture
## Description 
Service-Oriented Architectures (SOA) describe a common approach to implementing distributed systems to efficiently support institutions through IT in their business processes. The individual activities within a business process are taken over by services, which are thus also reusable for other activities in other business processes. By combining the services (orchestration), new business processes can be implemented, for example. The SOA concept promises to solve many existing problems in the integration and interaction of different subsystems.

The starting point for the presentation in this module is the Reference Model for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) -RM (Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards), which is based, among other things, on an infrastructure-related service environment , represented in an Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) and an application-independent transport protocol, such as the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP). SOAP is key to the security architecture in the area of ??application security. SOAP is a W3C protocol standard that also provides the necessary security protocol elements such as WS-Security. Furthermore, SOAP enables standardized communication between distributed applications and objects, especially in the SOA / ESB environment. However, other XML transport containers such as Representational State Transfer (REST) ??can also be used. Due to the flexibility of SOAP, this specification is preferred here.

The OASIS for SOA reference model goes beyond pure Web applications such as those included in the B 5.21 Web Applications and B 5.24 Web Services building blocks, and describes a general model of how services and service profiles, even and especially in the Distribution can be used by users and connected to new capabilities. In order to allow such service usage by different service providers, standardized service access points are used.

Most service-oriented architectures use SOAP for messaging and HTTP for transport. SOAP as the communication protocol and HTTP as the transport protocol do not support any security requirements in their basic form. Rather, data is transmitted in plain text. SOAP messages are mainly exchanged via HTTP over SSL 3.0 or TLS 1.0 or 1.2 (HTTPS).

In SOAP-based platforms, object protection is additionally introduced for SOAP-transmitted information objects and transmitted together with the original SOAP message. This object protection can basically consist of the following elements:

* Indication  of the classification of the information object,
* Information about the creator and / or the authorized user,
* Specification   about the integrity protection and
* Indication  of the confidentiality protection.


The OASIS standard WS-Security has become established as the primary technology for this. WS-Security relies on existing standards such as XML encryption, XML signatures and X.509 certificates. WS-Security is a fundamental extension of the SOAP standard to meet the integrity, confidentiality, and authenticity requirements of messages and peer entities. The authentication and authorization is based on SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language).

Access to SOAP-based information objects in IT systems is subject to different access restrictions, as long as these objects are not declared as freely accessible. The essential criteria here are the classification, such as the degree of classification and additional markings, the intended recipient circle and, if necessary, an expiration date for the information, or parts of it, in the information object.

Access information to information objects are noted in a label. In order to make this additional information (meta-information) non-fatal during the entire lifetime of an information object, it must be firmly bound to the information object, as are all other components of the SOAP message. This is usually done by an additional signature.

The module presents the dangers of service-oriented architectures and describes measures to adequately protect the information network.



## Countermeasures 
In order to secure an information network, additional building blocks must be implemented in addition to this building block, according to the results of the modeling for IT basic protection. Measures already mentioned in cross-section modules and in corresponding system, network and application modules are not mentioned here again. These components and measures are to be applied in individual cases in such a way that they are also useful for an SOA.

For service-oriented architectures, the following structured actions should be implemented according to the lifecycle phases.



###Planning and conception
When planning a service-oriented environment, a number of framework conditions must be considered. The first step is to create a security architecture for SOA-based systems that enables secure, distributed service usage, even across domain boundaries (see eg M 2.1 Defining Responsibilities and Regulations, M  2.378 System Development and M 2.561 Creating Specified SOA Implementations and Configurations). When communicating SOA-based systems with each other, integrated security mechanisms should be used for consistent, homogeneous XML transport containers. The OASIS standard WS-Security has become established as the primary technology for this. Authentication and authorization based on SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language) should be used.



###implementation
When implementing an SOA-based approach, it must be ensured that the communication between the participants (eg client, server) is secured (M 4.450 secure communication with web services) and that the resources are protected from a blockade (See M 4.405 Preventing Blockage of Resources (DoS) in Web Applications and Web Services). In addition, suitable input and output validation must be implemented (see M 4.393 Comprehensive input and output validation for web applications and web services). If confidential data is transferred within an SOA, the XML transport containers must also be protected (see M 4.473 Protection against the Shutdown of XML Transport Containers in an SOA). Furthermore, upstream authentication and authorization mechanisms should limit the chances of attack on the backend applications (see M 4.474 Protection against vulnerabilities in backend applications of an SOA).



###business
Users must be prevented from changing the user environment in a distributed SOA environment. In addition, ensure that they can only access resources that they should access (see M 4.453 Using a Security Token Service (STS) and M 4.480 Protecting WS-Resource in SOA Environments). If the connection between a service consumer and a service provider is connected via an insecure network, precautions must be taken to ensure that the communication can not be overheard, modified or disturbed (see M 5.68 Using encryption) method of network communication).



###emergency preparedness
A failure of individual services within an SOA environment should be compensated for as far as possible by the use of redundant service providers (see M 6.161 Redundant Hardware Components in Service-Oriented Architectures). Since the failure of individual service providers usually affects a large number of users, measures must be taken to reduce the resulting damage. In a Business Continuity Plan, therefore, all measures are to be described which are necessary if, due to a failure of individual service providers, only a limited operation within an SOA environment occurs (see M 6.160 Emergency preparedness plan for SOA environments).

The following is a description of the set of measures for the SOA block.



