#B 5.5 Lotus Notes / Domino
## Description 
Lotus Notes is described as a groupware platform or as a collaboration platform. Behind these terms hides an increasingly complex software that focuses on communication, collaboration and information management. The scope extends from the level of working groups or projects to cross-institutional dimensions.

This module looks at the core products of the Lotus product range: the Lotus Domino server and the various Lotus Notes clients. The module focuses on Releases 8.0.x and 8.5.x, although many considerations can also be applied to earlier release releases.

In addition to adequate protection of the infrastructure required for the operation of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform (premises, special infrastructure for the servers, hardware, network components), those below the Domino and Notes Components used operating systems are protected gem  IT-Grundschutz.

If additional components are used to operate the Lotus Notes / Domino platform, such as: This is to be taken into account in the modeling of the information network and the corresponding IT-Grundschutz modules (in this case module B 5.7 databases) are to be used.



## Countermeasures 
In order to safeguard the considered information network, in addition to this block further modules must be implemented according to the results of the modeling afterIT-Grundschutz.

For secure operation of Lotus Notes / Domino, the building blocks for the IT infrastructure used, including the operating systems, must first be used, components for security components such as B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall) and B  1.6 Protection against malicious programs are implemented. Above all, however, module B 5.3 should be applied to groupware, which contains general recommendations for the general protection of groupware systems.

In this module, not all technical options of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform are considered in detail in order not to go beyond the scope of IT-Grundschutz. For example, application-level clustering, which can be used as a measure to ensure availability in the case of high and very high protection requirements in terms of availability, is not dealt with in detail.

For the successful development of a Notes system, a series of measures have to be implemented, beginning with the conception over the installation, the operation up to the rejection of the system. The steps to be taken and the actions to follow in each step are listed below.



###Planning and conception
As a first step, it is advisable to first consider M 3.87 Implementation in Lotus Notes / Domino, which provides an overview of the structure and terminology of a Notes system.

If the decision has been made for a Notes system, the use of the Notes system must be planned and designed. The aspects to be taken into account are summarized in measure M 2.206 Planning the Use of Lotus Notes / Domino. At the same time, a security policy must be developed (see M 2.207 Security Concept for Lotus Notes / Domino), which, on the one hand, implements the existing security guidelines in the context of Lotus Notes and, on the other, defines Notes-specific extensions.

The security components used in the IT of the institution must be taken into account and incorporated into the concept. Notes on the interaction of a Lotus Notes / Domino environment with existing security components can be found in the M 2.492 Integration of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment into the existing security infrastructure.



###procurement
After completing the conceptual design work and defining the procurement criteria for a Notes system, depending on the number of selected components, see M 2.494 Appropriate Selection of Infrastructure Components for a Lotus Notes / Domino Environment ) a suitable license model is selected. The measure M 2.493 License Management and Licensing Aspects in Procurement for Lotus Notes / Dominobot supports this.



###implementation
After the organizational and planning preparatory work has been completed, you can install the Notes system. The installation can not be considered complete until the Notes systems have been brought to a secure state (see M 4.116 Secure installation of Lotus Notes / Domino). In the following configuration phase, the procedure M 4.429 Secure configuration of Lotus Notes / Domino must be followed.



###business
A Notes system is usually subject to constant change. Therefore, safety-relevant configuration parameters must be continuously adjusted. In addition, security in a client-server-based system depends on the security of all subsystems.

General recommendations for operation (including application development and application integration with Lotus Notes / Domino) are included in M 4.128 Secure Operation of the Lotus Notes / Domino Environment. In order to be able to react promptly to emerging problems, the measures M 4.132 Monitoring of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment and M 4.427 Security-relevant logging and evaluation for Lotus Notes / Domino should be taken into account.



###segregation
If it is decided not to continue operating a Lotus Notes / Domino environment, all important information must be ported to the successor system and then the remaining data must be securely deleted. However, even if only parts of a Lotus Notes / Domino environment are to be discarded, there are a few points to note that are outlined in M 2.495 Separation of Lotus Notes / Domino Components.



###emergency preparedness
In addition to the normal operation of a Lotus Notes / Domino environment, the emergency operation must also be taken into account and the responsible persons must prepare a corresponding emergency planning (see M 6.73 Emergency Planning and Emergency Exercises for the Lotus Notes / Domino Environment).

The following is a description of the action box for the Lotus Notes / Domino module:



