#G 0.26 Malfunction of devices or systems
Devices and systems that serve information processing often have many functions today and therefore have a correspondingly complex structure. Basically, this affects both hardware and software components. Due to the complexity, there are many different sources of error in such components. As a result, it often happens that devices and systems do not work as intended, causing security problems.

There are many causes of malfunctions, such as material degradation, manufacturing tolerances, conceptual weaknesses, exceedance of limit values, unforeseen operating conditions or lack of maintenance. Since there are no perfect devices and systems, a certain residual probability for malfunctions must always be accepted anyway.

Malfunctions of devices or systems may compromise all basic information security values ??(confidentiality, integrity, availability). In addition, malfunctions can possibly go unnoticed over a longer period of time. As a result, it may happen, for example, that calculation results are deleted and are not corrected in time.



## Examples 
* Due to a clogged ventilation grid, a storage system overheats, which then does not completely fill up, but only has sporadic malfunctions. Only a few weeks later it is noticed that the stored information is incomplete.
* A standard scientific application is used to perform a statistical analysis for a pre-collected database stored in a database. However, according to the documentation, the application is not released for the database product used. Although the analysis seems to work, sampling shows that the calculated results are wrong. The cause identified compatibility issues between the application and the database.




