#G 0.44 Unauthorized intrusion into premises
If unauthorized persons enter a building or individual premises, this can entail various other dangers. This includes, for example, theft or manipulation of information or IT systems. In the case of qualified attacks, the time period in which the agents are able to pursue their objective undisturbed is decisive.

Often, the doors want to steal valuable IT components or other goods that can easily be sold. However, the goal of a burglary can also be to gain access to confidential information, to manipulate or to disrupt business processes.

The unauthorized intrusion into premises can thus cause several types of damage:

* Already the unauthorized intrusion can cause property damage. Windows and / or doors are forcibly opened and damaged, they must be repaired or replaced.
* Stolen, damaged or destroyed equipment or components must be repaired or replaced.
* Damage may result from a breach of confidentiality, integrity or availability of information or applications.




## Examples 
* In a nightfall in a B rogeb ude the T konntenter could make no worthwhile prey. Out of frustration, they emptied the powder extinguishers into the office rooms. The burglary damage was low, the vandalism damage, however, by the cleaning costs and work stoppages unreasonably high.
* In a break-in to a business on a weekend, only minor damage was done by prying open a window, only a coffee and smaller furnishings were stolen. During a routine check, however, it was later discovered that a central server was cleverly manipulated exactly at the time of the break-in.




