#G 0.41 sabotage
Sabotage is the willful manipulation or damage of things or processes with the aim of harming the victim. Particularly attractive targets can be data centers or communication links between authorities and companies, since a relatively small amount of funds can be used to make a big impact.

The complex infrastructure of a data center can be selectively manipulated by targeted influencing of important components, if necessary by doors from outside, but above all by internal doors, in order to cause operational disturbances. Particularly threatened are not adequately protected building technology or communication infrastructure as well as central supply points, which may not be monitored either organisationally or technically, and which are easily and unobserved for external parties.



## Examples 
* In a large data center, the manipulation of the UPS led to a temporary total failure. The door had repeatedly bypassed the UPS by hand and then manipulated the main power supply to the building. In total, four cases took place in three years. Sometimes it came even to hardware damage. The business interruption lasted between 40 and 130 minutes.
* Within a data center sanitary facilities were also housed. By clogging the drains and opening the water supply at the same time, water penetrated into central technical components. The damage caused in this way led to business interruptions in the productive system.
* For electronic archives, sabotage poses a particular risk, as many valuable documents are usually kept in a small space. As a result, a great deal of damage may be caused by targeted, inexpensive manipulations.




