#G 0.29 Violation  against laws or regulations
If information, business processes and IT systems of an institution are insufficiently secured (for example due to inadequate security management), this may lead to violations of laws relating to information processing or existing contracts with business partners. Which laws are to be respected depends on the type of institution or its business processes and services. Depending on where the locations of an institution are located, different national regulations may apply. The following examples illustrate this:

* The handling of personal data in Germany is governed by a variety of regulations. This can include the Federal Data Protection Act and the state data protection laws, but also a large number of sector-specific regulations. If personal data (eg confidential patient data) are transmitted unprotected via public networks during communication between two business units, this can Under certain circumstances legal consequences may result.
* The management of a company is obliged to exercise due care in all business processes. This also includes the observance of recognized safety measures. In Germany, various legal provisions apply, such as KonTraG (Law on Control and Transparency in the Corporate Division), GmbHG (Law on Limited Liability Companies) or AktG (Stock Corporation Act), which stipulate corresponding liability and action obligations for risk management and information security management or the management board of a company.
* The orderly processing of booking-related data is governed by various laws and regulations. In Germany, these include the German Commercial Code (HGB    238 et seq.) And the German Tax Code (AO). The proper processing of information includes, of course, their secure processing. Both have to be proven regularly in many countries, for example by auditors as part of the audit of the annual financial statements. If serious safety concerns are detected, no positive test report can be produced.
* In many industries (such as the automotive industry), it is customary for manufacturers to commit their suppliers to comply with certain quality and safety standards. In this context, information security requirements are also increasing. If a contracting party fails to comply with contractually regulated security requirements, this can result in contractual penalties, but also in contract resolutions, including the loss of business relationships.


Only a few security requirements arise directly from laws. However, the legislation is generally based on the state of the art as a general basis for assessing the degree of security attainable. If the existing security measures in an institution are not in a healthy relationship to the values ??to be protected and the state of the art, this can have serious consequences.

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



