#G 0.19 Disclosure of valuable information
Confidential data and information may only be accessible to authorized persons. In addition to integrity and availability, confidentiality is one of the core values ??of information security. For confidential information (such as passwords, personal data, company or official secrets, development data), there is an inherent risk that these will be disclosed by technical failure, carelessness or even by preventive acts.

In this case, this confidential information can be accessed at different locations, for example

* on storage media within computers (hard disks),
* on exchangeable storage media (USB sticks, CDs or DVDs),
* in printed form on paper (printouts, files) and
* on transmission paths during data transmission.


The way in which information is disclosed can be very different, for example:

* unauthorized reading of files,
* thoughtless disclosure, z. B. in the course of repair orders,
* insufficient deletion or destruction of data carriers,
* Theft of the data medium and subsequent evaluation,
* Listening to transmission lines,
* Infection of IT systems with malware,
* Read on the screen or listen to conversations.


The release of valuable information can have serious consequences for an institution. Among other things, the loss of confidentiality can have the following negative effects for an institution:

* Violation  against laws, for example data protection, banking secrecy,
* Negative internal impact, for example demoralization of employees,
* Negative external impact, for example, negatively impacting relationships with business partners, lost customer trust,
* Financial implications, for example claims for damages, fines, legal costs,
* Impairment of the right to informational self-determination.


A loss of confidentiality is not always noticed immediately. Often it turns out later, z. B. through press inquiries that unauthorized persons have gained access to confidential information.



## Examples 
* Buyers of used computers, hard drives, mobile phones or similar devices will find it always very confidential information such as patient information or account numbers.




