#G 0.42 Social engineering
Social engineering is a method to gain unauthorized access to information or IT systems through social actions. In social engineering, human characteristics such as. Helpfulness, trust, fear or respect for authority exploited. As a result, employees can be manipulated to act improperly. A typical case of attacks using social engineering is the manipulation of employees by phone call, in which the attacker z. B. outputs as:

* Vorzimmerkraft, whose supervisor wants to do something quickly, but has forgotten his password and urgently needs it now,
* Administrator calling for a system error as he still needs the user's password to troubleshoot.


When critical questions come up, the curious is supposed to be just a help or an important person.

Another strategy in systematic social engineering is building a longer relationship with the victim. Through many unimportant phone calls in advance, the attacker can gather knowledge and build trust, which he can later exploit.

Such attacks can also be multileveled by building on the knowledge and techniques acquired in previous stages.

Many users know that they can not pass passwords on to anyone. Social engineers know this and therefore have to reach the desired destination via other means. Examples of this are:

* An attacker may ask the victim to execute unknown commands or applications, eg. because this should help with an IT problem. This can be a hidden statement for a change of access rights. This allows the attacker to access sensitive information.
* Many users use strong passwords, but they are used for multiple accounts. If an attacker runs a useful network service (such as an e-mail address system) that users need to authenticate to, they can access the passwords and logins they want. Many users will use the credentials they use for this service with other services as well.


When attackers illegally obtain passwords or other authentication features, such as social engineering, this is often referred to as phishing (password and fishing word).

In social engineering, the attacker is not always visible. Often the victim never finds out that it was exploited. If successful, the attacker will not have to expect prosecution and will have a source to get more information later.

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



