#G 0.34 attack
An attack can threaten an institution, certain areas of the institution or individuals. There are many technical possibilities to make an attack: thrown bricks, explosion by explosives, firearms use, arson. Whether and to what extent an institution is exposed to the danger of an attack depends not only on the situation and the environment of the building, but also on its tasks and the political-social climate. Companies and authorities that operate in politically controversial areas are more vulnerable than others. Institutions near ordinary demonstration staging areas are more at risk than those in remote locations. To assess the threat or suspect threats from politically motivated attacks, the state police or the Federal Criminal Police Office can be called on to advise in Germany.

In the case of archives, this is to be taken into account as a special circumstance that a large number of documents and data are stored in a comparatively small space. These can z. B. Be patient data, contracts, certificates or wills. Their destruction can have far-reaching effects, not only on the storage site, but also on other users. For example, in such a case, it may be necessary to rediscover and capture the destroyed information with great effort. Under certain circumstances, certain information may even be irretrievably lost. Impacts on paper-based and electronic archives can therefore cause considerable damage.

Examples:

* In the 1980s, an explosive device was bombed on the data center of a large federal authority in K ln. The explosive power of the explosive device not only destroyed windows and walls, but also many IT systems in the data center.
* The attack on the World Trade Center in New York on September 11, 2001 not only killed many people, but also destroyed many IT facilities. As a result, several companies have had significant difficulties continuing their business activities.


Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



