#G 0.20 Information or products from unreliable sources
When using information, software, or devices that originate from unreliable sources or whose origin and correctness have not been adequately tested, the use of the device can be very dangerous. Among other things, this can lead to business-relevant information being based on an incorrect database, calculations yielding incorrect results or wrong decisions being taken. Likewise, the integrity and availability of IT systems can also be impaired.



## Examples 
* A recipient may be misled by e-mails whose origin he / she has not checked to perform certain actions that may be detrimental to him or others. For example, the email may contain interesting attachments or links that, when clicked, cause malicious software to be installed on the receiver. The sender of the e-mail may be falsified or imitated by a known communication partner.
* The assumption that an indication is true because it is in the paper or broadcast on TV is not always justified. As a result, false statements can be incorporated into business-critical reports.
* The reliability of information disseminated over the Internet varies widely. If statements are taken over from the internet without further source checks, this can lead to incorrect decisions.
* Importing updates or patches from untrustworthy sources may lead to unwanted side effects. If the origin of software is not checked, there is an increased risk that IT systems will be infected with harmful code.




