#G 0.3 water
Water can interfere with the integrity and availability of information stored on analog and digital media. Information in the main memory of IT systems is also at risk. The uncontrolled entry of water into buildings or rooms may, for example, be caused by:

* Disturbances in the water supply or sewage disposal,
* Defects of the heating system,
* Defects in air conditioning systems with water connection,
* Defects in sprinkler systems,
* L schwasser in fire fighting and
* Water sabotage z. B. by opening the water taps and clogging the drains.


Regardless of how water gets into buildings or rooms, there is a risk that utilities or IT components will be damaged or put out of operation (short circuit, mechanical damage, rust, etc.). ). Especially if central facilities of the building supply (main distributor for electricity, telephone, data) are located in basement rooms without self-draining dehydration, penetrating water can cause very high damage.

Problems can also be caused by frost. For example, pipes can become leaky in frost-prone areas when water is in standstill with continued frost. An existing thermal insulation will also be overcome by frost over time.



## Examples 
* In a server room, a water pipe ran below the ceiling, which was clad with plasterboard elements. As a connection of the water pipe was leaking, this was not detected in time. The escaping water initially collected at the deepest point of the fairing before it leaked out and caused a short circuit in the power distribution board underneath. As a result, both the water supply and the power supply of the affected building part had to be completely switched off until the final repair.




