#G 0.16 Theft of devices, data carriers or documents
The theft of data carriers, IT systems, accessories, software or data incurs reimbursement costs and the restoration of a workable state, as well as losses due to a lack of availability. If theft reveals confidential information, it may cause further damage. In addition to servers and other expensive IT systems, even mobile IT systems that are inconspicuous and easy to transport are often stolen. But there are also cases in which targeted data carriers, such as documents or USB sticks, were stolen in order to access the confidential information stored on them.



## Examples 
* In the spring of 2000, a notebook from the US Department of State disappeared. An official statement did not exclude that the device might contain confidential information. Nor was it known whether the device was secured cryptographically or by other measures against unauthorized access.
* In a German Federal Office was repeatedly broken through the same unsecured windows. In addition to other valuables, mobile IT systems also disappeared. Whether files were copied or manipulated, could not be excluded beyond doubt.
* In the UK, there were a number of data breaches where confidential records were disclosed because data carriers were stolen. In one case, the British Air Force stole several computer hard drives containing very personal information collected for security checks.
* A call center employee made copies of a large amount of confidential customer data just before leaving the company. After leaving the company, he sold the data to competitors. As details of the incident subsequently reached the press, the call center lost many important customers.




