#G 1.8 Dust, pollution
Despite increasing electronics, it still does not work without mechanical components. Mention should be made of fixed and removable disks, printers, scanners etc, but also fans of processors and power supplies. With increasing demands on quality and speed, these devices must work more and more precisely. Even slight contamination can lead to a malfunction of a device. Dust and dirt can occur, for example

* Work on walls, double floors or other building parts,
* Retrofitting work on the hardware or
* Unpacking actions of devices (eg stirring styrofoam)


to a greater extent, which can cause corresponding failures of the hardware.

Existing safety circuits in the devices usually lead to a timely shutdown. Although this keeps the damage, the repair costs and the downtime small, it does mean that the affected device is not available.



## Examples 
* When setting up a server in a media room, along with a copier and a plain paper fax machine, the processor fan and power supply fan jarring occurred one after the other due to the high levels of dust in the room. The failure of the processor fan caused sporadic server crashes. The failure of the power supply fan eventually led to overheating of the power supply resulting in a short circuit, which eventually resulted in a total failure of the server.
* In order to hang a blackboard in a office, household appliances drilled holes in the wall. The employee had left his office for a short time. After returning to work, he realized that his PC was not working anymore. The cause for this was drilling dust, which had penetrated through the ventilation slots in the PC power supply.




