#G 1.5 water
For example, the uncontrolled entry of water into buildings or rooms may be due to:

* Rain, flood, flood,
* Disturbances in the water supply or sewage disposal,
* Defects of the heating system,
* Defects in air conditioning systems with water connection,
* Defects in sprinkler systems,
* L schwasser in fire fighting and
* Wassersabotagez. B.by opening the water taps and clogging the drains.


Regardless of how water gets inside buildings or rooms, there is a risk that utilities or IT components will be damaged or shut down (short circuit, mechanical damage, rusting). If central facilities of the building supply (main distribution for electricity, telephone, data) are located in basement rooms without self-sufficiency dehydration, penetrating water can cause very high damage.



## Examples 
* Many commercial enterprises, even large companies, do not adequately take into account flood risk. For example, a company has been surprised several times by flood damage at the data center. The data center literally floated away within 14 months for the second time. The resulting damage amounted to several hundred thousand euros and is not covered by insurance.
* In a server room, a water pipe ran below the ceiling, which was clad with plasterboard elements. As a connection of the water pipe was leaking, this was not detected in time. The escaping water initially collected at the deepest point of the fairing before it leaked out and caused a short circuit in the power distribution board underneath. As a result, both the water supply and the power supply of the affected building part had to be completely switched off until the final repair.




