#G 1.15 Impaired by changing operating environment
Mobile data carriers and devices are used in very different environments and are therefore exposed to a variety of dangers. These include, for example, damaging environmental influences such as too high or too low temperatures, as well as dust or moisture. Other problems caused by the mobility of the devices include, for example, transport damage.

Another important aspect of mobile data carriers and devices is that they are often used in areas with different levels of security. In some environments, the level of security is known to users, not others. Especially smartphones, tablets, PDAs, laptops and similar mobile devices are not only mobile, but can also easily communicate with other IT systems. Therefore, the problems caused by this interaction must also be considered. Within their own institution, employees can largely value the trustworthiness of IT systems, but in a foreign environment this is difficult. Communication with unknown IT systems and networks always poses a threat to your own mobile device. For example, when contacting other IT systems, malicious programs can also be transmitted or sensitive information copied.

Therefore, after the return of mobile data carriers and IT systems, there must always be a critical question as to where this USB stick, PDA or laptop has already been everywhere and then take appropriate precautionary measures.

Another problem with the use of foreign infrastructures, such. For example, when downloading information offers at trade fairs, there is often insufficient transparency of the services offered. Many service providers collect customer data to create profiles that they use for advertising or resell to third parties. Such profiles include, for example, information about whereabouts and the communication behavior of the user (which services, when, how often, with whom). Even applications that run completely on their own mobile device may collect data (eg on usage frequency and type) and pass it on as soon as the device goes online.

Again and again, mobile data carriers and devices are lost or stolen. The smaller and more coveted such devices, such as smartphones, tablets or PDAs, the higher is this risk. In addition to the material loss, further damage can be caused by the loss or disclosure of important data.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



