#G 1.3 lightning
Lightning is the essential hazard during a thunderstorm for a building and the information technology it contains. At voltages of several 100,000 volts, lightning reaches up to 200,000 amperes. This enormous electrical energy is released and mined within 50-100 microseconds. A flash with these values, which is located at a distance of about 2 km, still causes power surges in the building in the building, which can lead to the destruction of sensitive electronic devices. These indirect losses increase with decreasing distance.

If the lightning falls directly into a building, the dynamic energy of the lightning causes damage. This can be damage to the building (roof and façade), damage due to the occurrence of fire or overvoltage damage to electrical equipment.

Different commercial weather services issue chargeable information about the regionally different lightning risk. These include, among others, the German Weather Service (www.dwd.de) or the Blitz Information Service of Siemens (BLIDS, www.blids.de).



## Examples 
* At a major German airport, a lightning struck right next to the tower. Despite the installed external lightning protection system (lightning rod), the automatic extinguishing system was triggered in the IT area, which paralyzed the entire airport operation for 2 hours.
* In addition to direct damage, lightning strikes often have far-reaching consequences. Often there are reports such as these: In April 1999, a lightning strike in a high-voltage line in the Darmstadt area led to a short-term power outage, which affected about 80,000 people.




