#G 1.7 Inadmissible temperature and humidity
Each device has a temperature range within which it will function properly. If the room temperature exceeds the limits of this range, this can lead to malfunctions and device failures.

So is z. B. implemented in a server room by the devices therein electrical energy into heat and therefore heated the room. In case of insufficient ventilation, the permissible operating temperature of the devices may be exceeded. When the sun is shining in the room, temperatures above 50 C are not unlikely.

For ventilation purposes, the windows of the server room are often opened. In the transitional period (spring, autumn), this can lead to large temperature fluctuations that exceed the permissible air humidity due to strong cooling.

When storing digital long-term storage media, excessive temperature fluctuations or excessive humidity can lead to data errors and reduced storage times. Some manufacturers specify the optimal storage conditions for long-term storage media with temperatures of 20 to 22 C and a humidity of 40%. Analog storage media such as paper or microfilms also require certain storage conditions. If paper is stored too damp, for example, it may become moldy or dissolved.



## Examples 
* In a Bonn office, the entire control and evaluation electronics of a safety device were accommodated in a room that had just enough space to open the doors of the appliance door. For safety reasons, both the cabinets and the room were locked with fixed doors.
* After the completion of the plant in autumn, the plant ran trouble-free. In the following summer, first inexplicable malfunctions and soon total crashes of the system, everything without any recognizable systematic. Day-long searches with high technical and personnel expenditure with opened doors did not yield any results. Only by accident, finally, was the overheating of the system at outside temperatures above 30 ° C recognized as the cause of the faults and successfully stopped by a cooling unit.




