#G 1.1 staff shortages
The loss of personnel can have a significant impact on an institution and its business processes. Personnel can be unpredictable due to illness, accident, death or strike, for example. Furthermore, account must also be taken of the predictable loss of staff in the event of leave, training or a regular termination of the employment relationship, in particular if the remaining working time. B.by a holiday entitlement is shortened.

In all cases, the consequence can be that crucial tasks can no longer be performed due to staff shortages. This is particularly critical if the person concerned occupies a key position in a business process and can not be replaced due to the lack of specialist knowledge of others. Faults in the IT operation can be the result. As a result, other areas and processes of the institution can be massively disrupted.

A staff shortage can also result in a significant loss of knowledge and secrets that makes it impossible to transfer the work to other people at a later time.



## Examples 
* Due to prolonged illness, the network administrator of a company stayed away from the service. In the affected company, the network initially went on flawlessly. After two weeks, however, after a system crash, no one was able to fix the error, as there was only this networked Administrator. This resulted in a failure of the network over several days.
* During an administrator's vacation, the backup tapes in the backup vault had to be accessed in an institution for backup purposes. The access code to the vault has recently been changed recently and is only known to this administrator. Only after several days the data restoration could be carried out, since the administrator could not be reached faster on vacation.
* In the event of a pandemic, more and more staff will gradually fill up in the longer term, whether through the illness itself, the need to care for dependents or looking after children who can no longer attend school or kindergarten. or simply for fear of being infected by public transport or in the institution. Only the most necessary work can be done. The required maintenance of the systems, be it the central server or the necessary air conditioning in the data center, can no longer be afforded. By and by, more and more systems fail.




