#G 2.186 Lack of or inadequate regulations / no clear delineation of responsibilities for storage solutions
The use of centralized storage solutions brings increasing demands on the administration. These are justified both by an increased complexity of modern memory solutions and by the fact that increasingly IP networks and Fiber Channel networks are merging with one another within a memory solution.

In addition, more storage virtualization and storage automation are used. Furthermore, the architecture of storage solutions changes, which also affects the administration and thus the requirements of the administrators.

In this context, if there are no or only insufficient regulations regarding the delimitation of responsibilities, there is a risk of incorrect configurations due to inadequate knowledge. The following expressions are frequently observed here:

* If a network administrator administers FCoE switches, he may gain access to components for which he is not trained. Such a process can generate malfunctions or misconfigurations, which can even lead to the failure of the entire system.
* Often there is silencing between network administrators and administrators of the storage solutions. In each case, each area claims extended access rights for itself, without paying any attention to the level of knowledge of the other employees. However, the increasing merging of the IP and FC-SAN worlds into a unified network presents dangers to silos, as technical dependencies require closer collaboration and coordination among administrators.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



