#G 2.88 Disruption of the working climate through an outsourcing project
Outsourcing projects, depending on their nature and extent, not only have an impact on the business processes, but also on the staff within a company or a public authority. However, in addition to the positive effects expected from the client, negative effects are also possible from the employees' point of view. Examples of these are:

* Outsourcing can lead to downsizing and associated transfers or cancellations of employees.
* The outsourcing of business premises alters customary work processes.
* Before, during or after the introduction of an outsourcing project, high workloads can occur.
* Collaboration with outsourcing service personnel or external consultants may require that individual employees have competencies and responsibilities. However, it may also be the case that employees have to assume new responsibilities and feel overburdened by it.
* Restructuring in connection with an outsourcing project may also require employees to change employer (eg transition to a subsidiary or takeover by the outsourcing service provider). At the same time, the employee may be forced to accept worse conditions or at least feel the same way.


Through these or similar changes, the working climate can be sustainably disrupted. Potential dangers include:

* Employees or former employees can perform acts of revenge.


* Employees are poorly motivated and neglect unintentional or willful duties, especially security measures.


* Know-how carriers (such as IT managers and administrators) can terminate during the introductory phase. As a result, the outsourcing project could not be implemented as required or even not implemented, which in turn can be life-threatening. Often, the outsourcing service provider even depends on the key know-how carriers switching to it in an orderly fashion.


Status: as of 2005



