#G 2.54 Confidentiality loss due to residual information
In the case of electronic data transmission or data transfer, it often happens that information is passed on that should not leave the institution. Possible causes for the unintended disclosure of information can be found in the following examples:

* A file contains text passages that are formatted as hidden or hidden. Such passages may contain comments that are not intended for the recipient.
* Files created using standard software such as word processors or spreadsheets may contain additional information about directory structures, version levels, editors, comments, processing time, last printed date, document names and descriptions. Particularly noteworthy in this context are functions that allow multiple editors to edit a document together. Such functions do not actually delete text passages that an editor deletes or overwrites from the document, but merely mark them as deleted and allow later editors to make changes in whole or in part retroactively do. Virtually all current office suites (such as Microsoft Office and OpenOffice) provide this facility. If the data of such changes are not removed prior to disclosure, the recipient may receive a large amount of other information in addition to the actual document.
* Virtually all current office suites have the ability to quickly save created documents. This results in only the changes being saved to a document. This process takes less time to complete than a full store, where the Office suite stores the complete, revised document. A full save requires less disk space than fast saves. The decisive disadvantage, however, is that in case of fast storage, the file may contain text fragments that the author does not want to pass on.
* Another way to pass on information that is not intended for external users is to use functions that allow, for example, to embed a spreadsheet table into a text document or presentation in such a way that the Table can be edited directly in the text document. If such a text document is passed on, much more information may be transmitted from the spreadsheet document than can be seen in the text document.


* On z / OS systems, deleted members are not immediately overwritten in the library (PDS - Partitioned Dataset). Only the entry of the member in the directory (directory) of the PDS is deleted. Only when free space is required in the PDS will the information of the old member be overwritten. Not yet overwritten data can be read out with auxiliary programs.
* If files on a hard disk are deleted in z / OS systems, the file is marked as deleted in the Volume Table of Content (VTOC), but the file itself is not deleted on the hard disk. The file will be overwritten only if new data is to be saved on the hard disk and no free space is available. If it is possible to read the location of the file from the VTOC, it is possible to edit and restore the file with special programs. This also applies to bands that are marked as empty bands but not yet overwritten.




## Examples 
* if a computer has been depreciated and sold,
* if a defective device is repaired or replaced under warranty, or
* if a volume is passed on to a business partner as part of the volume exchange




