#G 2.126 Insufficient logging of changes to the Active Directory
The Active Directory usually represents a central point in an institution for authentication and authorization when accessing network resources. Changes to the Active Directory structure or to individual domain controllers can therefore be a large part to impact one's institution. This applies to both authorized and unauthorized changes.

Are security-relevant changes to the configuration of the Active Directory or a domain controller, eg. upgrading a server to the domain controller, not documented or logged, there is the possibility that such changes will not be recognized or will not be recognized until later.

However, the sole logging of safety-critical prefetches or changes is not sufficient. In order to be able to identify safety-critical problems, a regular evaluation of the protocols must also be carried out (see G2.22 Missing or insufficient evaluation of protocol data).



## Examples 
* If an inadvertently or intentionally established trust relationship with an external domain is not recognized due to a lack of logging, the users of the external domain may be able to access the systems of the affected institution unnoticed.
* If the log data of a domain controller is not regularly evaluated, it may not be noticed that all users of this domain have been included in the group of domain admins. For example, the unrecognized misconfiguration may result in domain members gaining full access to the systems of the domain and installing malware (eg, backdoors or Trojan horses) on the computers of the domain. For example, such a backdoor can be the result of a faulty script in the context of administrative activities.




