#G 2.170 Lack of transparency for the data subject and the data protection supervisory authorities
If personal data are collected without informing the person concerned about the intended processing and the legal basis, transparency is called into question.

It is also called into question if information about the origin and the recipient of these data as well as deletion periods are withheld.

Will the privacy controllers fail to timely

* the introduction of new procedures,
* the release of procedures,
* the adoption of administrative provisions,
* the establishment of automated retrieval procedures or
* an assignment of data processing on behalf


they are prevented from submitting proposals to improve data protection in sufficient time to allow for any consideration in the development of the procedure. The responsibility for compliance with the provisions of data protection law remains with the data processing agency even when the data protection supervisory authorities are involved.

Missing or inadequate logging and documentation of the processing of personal data and lack of updating of procedural changes will hamper the work of the supervisory authorities. Effective control can also be jeopardized by incomplete or non-updated directories of the IT systems used, inadequate configuration overviews, and missing cabling plans.

Missing or incomplete reports on the internal directories and, to the extent required by law, on the public directories place data processing at a level of transparency for the data subject and the supervisory authorities.



## Examples 
* A data subject has suffered damage as a result of inadmissible automated data processing by a public authority. An attempt to obtain more information from the competent country commissioner for data protection by accessing the list of procedures (if available) may fail because there are no reports or that the notification, although prescribed, Partners are not mentioned.
* Because of missing process descriptions no one knows in a public agency, which files of which  mtern over which servants are led.




