#G 2.138 Poor recovery options for patch and change management
The process of reconstructing deleted or damaged data, applications, or specific configurations, such as restoring data from a backup, is called recovery. Since unpredictable complications can occur again and again after complex patches and changes have been distributed, a recovery point should always be determined first. This can be returned in an emergency and the productive operation ensured.

If there are no options for restoring distribution, or if the software recovery routines are not or not adequately effective, you will not be able to promptly correct the negative effects of improperly updated software. The associated failure of the IT infrastructure can cause significant damage to the institution.

As a rule, the affected damage limitation systems must be restored promptly. Inappropriate or even missing options for timely restoration can cause particularly high consequential damages in this case.



## Examples 
* When updating a database application during the patching and modification process, its configuration file is overwritten. During the update, it turns out that the updated database application is incompatible with web applications that are supposed to access the database. This problem can not be resolved promptly. Since the old software version, along with its configuration, was not saved for recovery and a new configuration has to be painstakingly created, the database and also the important web applications fall out for a longer period of time.




