#G 2.6 Unauthorized access to shelters requiring protection
All rooms where sensitive information is stored, maintained or operated in need of protection become protected areas. Examples of this are B ror ume, but also archives in which data carriers and files are stored centrally. Likewise, this includes technology distribution rooms with central components such as power distributors, network coupling elements and servers.

Unauthorized persons may cause harm in such premises through preventive acts (eg manipulation or vandalism), but also through unintentional misconduct (eg due to a lack of specialist knowledge). Even if no immediate damage can be detected, the operation can be disrupted if it is necessary to investigate how such an incident was possible, or if damage has occurred or if manipulation has taken place.

For example, intruders could reset passwords, access servers directly, or manipulate active network components. In addition, they may have stolen or altered sensitive information on paper or data media.

Not only rooms on the premises have to be protected against unauthorized access, but also office rooms in the home environment. Burglar alarms (eg lockable window handles, security locks and security interlocking and glazing on front doors) are often not implemented in the private environment for domestic workplaces for reasons of cost. As a result, for example, in teleworking the protection against burglary is lower than within a company or a public authority.



## Examples 
* The entire central IT of a company was housed in a server room, which was equipped with a restrictive and modern access restriction. In summer, however, it is determined that the air conditioning is not sufficient for the many IT systems. Therefore, windows and doors were opened wide for cooling on hot days. A short time later, a new, not yet activated server had disappeared without a trace.
* An employee had set up a separate home office for teleworking at home, but had not completed it consistently. When the toddlers were left unattended, they played in the unfastened study. Important documents were used as a basis for painting. In addition, the computer's openings were plugged with toys and biscuits, resulting in total catastrophic failure.
* In a company, every employee could enter all printer rooms. This enabled an attacker to physically access and reconfigure a central printer. As a result, all documents to be printed were written to the printer's built-in hard disk and then not deleted. When the hard drive was full, he replaced it with a blank one and evaluated the full one on his machine. Although the attacker was not active in the development department, he was thus able to unnoticeably record a large number of important development documents and sell them to the competition before this source flew open.
* The cleaning staff is a holiday replacement used. The holiday agency takes over the cleaning of the data center independently, although it was not instructed for that. There it opens the alarm-monitored emergency exit and triggers a false alarm.
* In the event of a break-in in a office building, at first glance, only the coffee keg and two new laptops disappeared. Nevertheless, all files must be inspected, if essential parts are missing and all IT systems are checked to see if they have been accessed without authorization.
* Even an existing access protection can fail if it is not appropriate. A good lock, for example, is worthless if neither the door is strong enough nor the hinges have been professionally mounted.




