#G 2.29 Software test with production data
In many cases it can be observed that software tests with production data are carried out. The essential reasons for this are that only in direct comparison with existing work results is it possible to make a conclusive judgment on the function and performance of the product. In addition, lack of security awareness, over-reliance on the software under test, and ignorance of potential harmful effects are the causes of this practice.

Testing with production data can cause the following problems:

* Software is tested with copies of production data in an isolated test environment: When new software is tested with non-anonymized data, unauthorized employees or third parties who have been assigned the software test are given access to files with potentially confidential information.
* Software is tested with production data in operative operation: malfunctioning of software during testing may, in addition to the above-mentioned case, lead, for example, to the confidentiality of the production data, as well as its integrity and availability become. Due to the incompatibility of different programs, side effects can occur that can cause lasting damage to other system components. In networked systems, this can range from performance losses to system crashes. Incorrect behavior of the software to be tested or operating errors can cause production data to be changed unintentionally. This change may not be detected. As data assets are increasingly shared by different programs to avoid unnecessary redundancy, these errors can affect other IT applications as well. In case of damage, not only the effort for the reconstruction of the data is necessary, in addition already created work results must be checked for their integrity.


Status: as of 2005



