#G 2.144 Insufficient emergency planning for a Samba server
Emergency benefits can interfere with the operation of Samba or lead to longer downtime. In addition to common mistakes that are often made in the area of ??emergency preparedness, a Samba server can make some special mistakes that make it difficult or even impossible to quickly respond to incidents. Some of these errors are described below:

* If the Samba server needs to be reinstalled after an emergency (such as an attack), the installation packages used during the installation (source packages or binary packages) are required. Therefore, it can cause significant delays if these packages are no longer available because they were stored on the compromised system itself, for example. In this case, it is possible that the installation packages were also tampered with. Reinstalling the Samba server from the compromised packages could cause major security issues.
* If the compilation and / or installation options of the Samba servers are not known, restoring a functionally equivalent installation can be very difficult. If it is not possible to restore this installation, optional features that are important to the information network might not be provided by Samba.
* When recovering from an emergency, it may be desirable to restore an older configuration. If versioning is not used for the configuration files (especially the smb.conf file), this can be difficult or even impossible.
* If there is no or only insufficient documentation of the configuration, it can be very difficult to re-establish a working configuration after an emergency. Bad or inadequate documentation can also lead to configuration errors not being detected at first, and troublesome troubleshooting when problems occur.


Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



