#G 2.103 Inadequate training of employees
IT users of all kinds are often trained in the use of the IT systems they use. Unfortunately, this often applies to administrators and user advisors. In many cases, expensive systems and applications are purchased, but no or only insufficient funds are provided for training IT users.

This can lead to serious security problems due to unintentional operating errors, incorrect configuration and unsuitable operating resources. Often users do not apply newly introduced security programs because they do not know how to operate them, and self-employed training is often seen as too time-consuming in the daily work routine. Therefore, the procurement and installation of security software is far from sufficient.



## Examples 
* During data collection, an error message unknown to the user appeared. Since clicking on ok did not cause any damage for most error messages, he also chose ok for this case. Only this time it caused the shutdown of the system and consequently the loss of the previously entered data.
* An expensive firewall system was procured. The administrator of another IT system was designated as the administrator of this firewall system by laying on a hand. Since it was considered to be uncommon and all available funds had been used for system procurement, it was neither trained in the operation of the system platform nor for the firewall type used. External seminars were denied due to lack of money, not even additional manuals purchased. Two months after the firewall was put into operation, it became apparent that a misconfiguration of the firewall was making internal systems accessible from the Internet.
* In one company, the migration to a new operating system was prepared. Although the responsible employee was an excellent expert on the platform used until then, he was not familiar with the new systems discussed and did not receive the appropriate training. Therefore, he visited some free events of a manufacturer, whose products he then favored. This led to a costly wrong decision by introducing an inappropriate product.
* Personal firewalls were installed on employees' notebooks for Internet use during business trips. The employees were not trained, a vote of the settings of the firewall with the needs of the employees did not take place. Many employees then turned off the firewall to easily reach any Internet sites they needed. The result was that after a few weeks many of the computers were contaminated with malicious programs. In addition to the loss of data, the reputation damage was significant, as a malicious program had resent over mails to customers.




