#G 2.151 Lack of manufacturer support for applications for use on virtual IT systems
Virtualization technology has only recently taken off the mainframe world (IBM Z-Series, Siemens BS2000, SUN Enterprise 25000) and has had a major impact on the design of data centers, and it is only since 2005 that virtual IT systems have been virtualized , Previously, virtual IT systems were used primarily in development and test environments. There are a large number of different virtualization products that are based on different technical approaches (server and operating system virtualization). Therefore, no standardization of a virtual IT system has yet taken place, as is possible, for example, for IT systems based on x86 or x64 hardware.

Applications are typically released by their manufacturer for a specific combination of operating system and hardware platform. For example, they help the user of the application troubleshoot when the application is running on the shared hardware platform with the appropriate operating system. However, since there is still no standardization of the hardware platform virtual IT system, general statements of the application manufacturers can not be made to what extent the installation of their application on any virtual IT system is supported.

Virtual IT systems can be operated on the basis of completely different virtualization techniques (server or operating system virtualization) and therefore have very different properties. For example, in virtual IT systems based on operating system virtualization (SUN Solaris Zones, Parallels Virtuozzo), which are multiple instances of a single operating system, different operating-system-related software libraries or different operating system cores can not be used or are only used to a very limited extent. Such a limitation does not usually exist with virtual machines based on complete server virtualization (eg, Citrix XenServer, Microsoft HyperV, QEMU, Sun VirtualBox, VMware ESX), so that a general statement can be made All conceivable virtual IT systems, regardless of which virtualization technology, are not possible.

For the reasons mentioned above, manufacturers generally do not release the operation of their applications on virtual IT systems, but may only grant these shares for certain combinations of operating system and specific virtualization products. If it is not checked whether such a release exists, there is a risk that accompaniment and help (support) will be rejected or curtailed if difficulties arise.



