#G 2.136 Missing overview   about the information network
Without an overview of the significant valuable information, business processes and IT structures of an institution, neither comprehensive security management nor a functioning IT operation is possible. Not only the technical components but also their networking and the spatial infrastructure as well as the dependencies of the different components have to be recorded.

Without detailed information about where in an institution which IT systems and applications are used, and which business processes and specialist tasks are supported by them. B. no effective patch and change management possible. For this reason, an up-to-date and complete inventory of all service-relevant elements, such as network components, servers, clients, applications and their relationship to each other, is required. The level of detail is very important. Too great a level of detail leads to unclearness as well as to increased care expenditure. A superficial or incomplete inventory of the relevant elements can, for example, result in the patching and modification process failing to detect or supply them adequately. A violation of the security goals of the institution is in such a case only a matter of time.



## Examples 
* A company manages a lot of information in a database for patch and change management. When a new software version of the managed IT systems is to be installed, the change manager initiates the update by comparing the installed version with the new, available version. Due to a lack of human resources, however, it was avoided to keep the datasets for the installed software versions up-to-date. As a result of this omission, software versions with serious security vulnerabilities were overlooked and not updated. These vulnerabilities could be exploited by an attacker and confidential information read out.
* In a company, software releases and licenses are not properly managed. As a result, some important applications do not notice that the vendor no longer provides security patches for the versions used in the institution. Occurring security gaps could therefore not be closed promptly.




