#G 2.91 Incorrect planning of migration from Exchange
In practice, Microsoft Exchange systems are migrated more frequently than reinstalled. In part, migrating to a new version of the Microsoft Exchange Server requires you to upgrade your operating system to a newer version.

New operating systems also bring with them requirements for the existing domain concept and the existing directory services. From a security point of view, planning and organizational services must be provided, which must be carefully and fundamentally rescheduled.

The following security issues can occur if the migration is planned incorrectly:

* The configurations could be mapped incorrectly or inconsistently, as this involves a redesign of the existing infrastructure. Furthermore, an incorrect connection to the directory service could result in the policies and access control lists (ACL) not being effective.


* Due to incorrect protocol settings or other incorrect configurations, a malfunction can be triggered.


* Under certain circumstances, the administration of the system is improperly planned and the administration limits are defined unclear. It may be necessary to revise and adapt appropriate old concepts. If the assignment of rights is wrongly planned for administrators, this can lead to security gaps or obstruct the administration of the system.


* The required organization-wide security guidelines could be insufficiently implemented due to incorrect planning of the migration of the security settings. This concerns both the accessibility of the server itself and the data stored there.


* Data and information could be lost during migration, especially if the system crashes during the migration phase.


* Necessary improvements of the configuration on the productive systems could result in a loss of productivity.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



