#G 2.183 Missing or insufficient zone concept
A zone concept serves to establish and maintain one or more security levels of individual systems within an institution. The goal of a zone concept is not the separation of different clients, but the separation of zones, which were awarded a different protection requirement. With the introduction of a zone concept, existing systems can be assigned a standardized level of safety based on their protection needs.

A zone concept can assume different expressions. Often, a subdivision into network zones and storage zones can be found, which, however, is implemented in different ways restrictively.

It should be noted that the term zoning within a SAN storage network describes the possible connections between a storage system and the servers and is only nominally related to a zone concept.

A missing or insufficient zone concept can mean that different requirements for the security level of systems with regard to availability, confidentiality or integrity can not be met or only partially met.

Furthermore, in the implementation of the zone concept, shortcomings can lead to the circumvention of the only intended and permitted access route to systems with different levels of security. An example of this is the violation of communication matrix regulations, which provide information about which systems should be able to access systems outside their own zone without additional authentication or authorization measures.

The implementation of an existing zone concept is based on the appropriate documentation of the defined rules regarding the permitted access paths. Lack of or inadequate documentation can lead to incomplete detection and elimination of violations of the existing communication matrix and thus the mixing of systems with different protection requirements.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



