#G 2.112 Inadequate planning of VoIP
Wrong decisions that are made in the planning phase can later only be corrected with a great deal of effort. In order to enable a stable use of VoIP, many aspects have to be considered.

VoIP requires a functioning data network. This data network can also be used for other services, such as e-mail and WWW. The additional IP packets required for VoIP mean that the data network can quickly become overloaded. Dimensioning therefore plays a crucial role in ensuring trouble-free operation. The consequences of a misappraisal regarding this aspect can extend to the failure of all technical communication options. For communication over VoIP signaling and media transport protocols are needed. In the case of signaling protocols, in which control instructions are mainly transmitted, no standard protocol has yet been established. In addition to many proprietary solutions, the signaling protocols SIP and H.323 should be mentioned. Many VoIP devices support only one protocol, which significantly influences planning.

The selection of a media transport protocol is less critical, because so far only the Realtime Transport Protocol (RTP) has prevailed. If both communication partners support the encrypted SRTP, the communication can take place protected.

For the actual transmission of the language a codec is required, which allows the conversion of speech into digital information. Although numerous codecs exist, the selection plays only a minor role in the planning. As a rule, the terminals support numerous codecs. When connecting, their use is negotiated with the communication partner. If both communication partners support only a few common codecs, then it may happen that a codec is selected which is not optimal for the framework conditions. On the one hand, this can result in high utilization of the network and, on the other hand, poor voice quality.

In addition to the basic technical functionality, a possible encryption between the devices plays an important role in the planning and acquisition of VoIP devices. For example, in some applications, an IPSecoderSSL encrypted VPN can be used. The installation of a VPN client is usually not possible with dedicated VoIP hardphones. If the encryption of the media transport protocol is also not supported, for example by SRTP, an attacker could potentially cease these phone calls.

Status: as of 2006



