#G 2.185 Lack of or insufficient software maintenance and missing or inadequate patch level management
Software maintenance is also known by the English term Software Maintenance. Manufacturers, with the provision of software updates (patches), aim to make changes and improvements to implemented software solutions even after they have been shipped. In this way, known bugs are fixed, the performance improved and the use of new technology wiez. B. the use of new disk generations (SSD, Flash, etc.).

If systems are not or only insufficiently maintained, for example by not releasing available security patches or by refraining from updating the firmware, this can lead to instability of the systems and thus failure of the memory solution.

In some cases, the smooth operation of a memory solution is dependent upon complying with a so-called compatibility matrix provided by the manufacturer. The compatibility matrix describes the interoperability of the hardware and software versions that can be used in a memory solution. If the firmware version of individual components deviates from this matrix, failures or performance losses can result.

Maintenance and patch level management are closely linked to an established change management process. If this is missing, it is difficult to reconstruct changes made and related errors. Up-to-date versions of software or firmware used in the event of a missing change management can only be determined with increased efforts.

The long-term safe operation of a storage solution can also be jeopardized by a lack of a maintenance contract, since the compatibility with current components may require a previous upgrade to the latest firmware. Without a maintenance contract, such an upgrade may not be possible or incurs significant costs.

Further information about existing failures related to the maintenance of hardware can be found in the G 2.5 Missing or insufficient maintenance.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



