#G 2.198 Lack of planning migration to cloud services
Depending on the scope of service and the criticality of the cloud services used, their use can bring considerable financial and organizational risks for the institution. In particular, the migration phase to the use of cloud services is prone to errors that may affect information security within the organization.

Migration in this context means both the transition from the use of classicIT to the use of cloud services and the change from one cloud service provider to another. In practice, the terms migration and transition or transformation are often used interchangeably.

Shortcomings in the planning of the migration to Cloud Services are often based on the fact that the peculiarities in this regard are not taken into account, or only insufficiently taken into account, in the case of migrations, such as those found in classicIT or in connection with outsourcing projects.

Migration in the cloud environment typically does not require a hard switch between classic IT and the use of cloud services. In practice, it is frequently observed that the old service and the new service obtained through the cloud service provider will be used in parallel over a longer period of time. The omission or shutdown of the old service and the use of the cloud service overlap at this point. For an institution, such parallel operation can lead to additional challenges and dangers, for example with regard to data consistency.

In the cloud environment, migrations from one service provider to another tend to be faster and more flexible than, for example, in the context of outsourcing projects. The contractual agreements often do not provide for long-term commitments. However, the technical implementation of migration from one service provider to another can be problematic and depends on the service model chosen. For example, the migration of an Infrastructure as a Service service is usually easy to implement, while a cloud service provided as Software as a Service often encounters difficulties associated with the required data format are.

If an institution dispenses with the consideration of a gradual migration during the planning phase, additional problems may arise in practice. Avoiding the expansion of migration across multiple stages, selecting pilot users, or running existing infrastructure and cloud services in parallel runs the risk of data loss or complete service delivery if the migration does not proceed as expected.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



