#G 2.134 Insufficient resources for patch and change management
In order to implement and operate effective patch and change management, adequate human, time and financial resources are required. Failure to provide these may have a negative impact. For example, it can lead to

* the necessary roles are not filled with suitable persons,
* the interfaces for certain information, such as appropriate contact persons in the departments, are not created or
* the required capacities for the infrastructure of the test and distribution environments are not provided.


If personnel, time and money can often be compensated in regular operation, they will become more and more noticeable under pressure of time, for example when emergency patches are being recorded.



## Examples 
* The lack of human resources within patch and change management can overload the responsible people. The daily work on planned patches and changes runs smoothly, but proactive or timely, reactive distribution of current security patches is no longer possible. The institution is thus hardly able; respond quickly to new threats to security.
* If there is not enough time to test a patch or change, or if there is no or limited access to a test environment that is analogous to the production system, insufficiently tested patches and changes are distributed in a complex environment. The consequences can be problems with the stability or smooth cooperation of the involved operating systems, applications and database management systems.




