#G 2.181 Poor planning and conception of the use of web services
Web services often have a high degree of complexity. Especially with regard to the flexible interaction of different web services, it is therefore necessary to plan carefully. Typical planning errors include:

* Standards are not taken into account: there is a very high number of standards for many aspects of web services. Some safety-relevant standards are presented in the measure M 4.451 Current Web Service Standards. Failure to take into account the applicable standards may make interoperability with other web services difficult or impossible.
* Outdated, not yet mature or inappropriate standards or protocols are selected: Not all standards have prevailed. Some published standards have since been supplemented by newer concepts. Outdated communication protocols often do not have sufficient security features.


* The required functionality is implemented incorrectly: If the requirements from the business process to be supported have not been correctly recorded, documented or understood, there is a risk that the web service (or several web services in their interaction) might Be developed by the requirements over and do not or only insufficiently perform the task actually provided.


* The application architecture is chosen inappropriately: If not all relevant requirements are taken into account when designing the architecture, the functionality, security or distributability of the web services may not be realized or only with increased effort can be. Furthermore, there is a risk that the components selected to implement the architecture do not support all the required functions and standards.
* Availability and performance requirements are not taken into account: The architecture and implementation of the web services must take due account of the existing availability and performance requirements. This also applies to the scalability of services and systems.


* Interfaces and XML schemas are designed inappropriately: The correct interaction of different web services presupposes that the interfaces and message formats are planned carefully, especially across provider boundaries.


* Persistent data is stored inappropriately: Due to the concept of statelessness, suitable solutions for intermediate results must be provided for storage. Overall, the data management must meet the requirements for efficiency, reliability and parallel processing. If the web services are used by different employees independently of each other, the data must be separated accordingly.


* Security functions are neglected: The development of web services is usually technically driven. Failure to take due account of required security features such as authentication, encryption, or entitlement checks during the design phase may result in the web services being realized failing to meet the protection requirements of the information being processed. The subsequent realization of security is often cumbersome and time-consuming.


* Insofar as personal data is processed, the external provision of web services also constitutes order data processing in the sense of the data protection laws. This requires that the resulting legal requirements are taken into account and the data protection authorities in the organization included.


* Depending on the field of application, other legal or other regulatory requirements must be observed in addition to data protection. If these specifications or their contents are not sufficiently known, or if they are not taken into account in the conception of the web services, then later the usability or usability of the web services may be at risk.


* Test options are not provided: In order to be able to map the further development of the web services, but also the update of used components as well as the import of patches in a suitable process, a test facility must be available, which can also be used during operation Performing tests without affecting the production environment.


Depending on the nature and environment of the web services, further aspects may be relevant for the planning, a final list is not possible here because of the diversity of conceivable scenarios.

In addition to the lack of consideration of the planning aspects mentioned above, there is also the risk that such considerations, although completed, are not documented in a comprehensible manner. If the responsibilities change later or if the company is expanded, essential information or decision-making principles may be missing.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



