#G 2.213 Lack of or insufficient quality assurance of the software development process
Lack of or inadequate quality assurance during software development can cause the project to be delayed or fail. In particular, if the secure implementation is not adequately tested, vulnerabilities threaten vulnerabilities in the delivered software.

If quality assurance is not firmly anchored in the development process, the risk arising from implementation errors, conceptual errors or even deliberate manipulation can not be adequately addressed. Attention should not only be given to self-developed ingredients, but also to external contributions of third parties or accepted components, e.g. from external libraries. The disclosure of the source code, according to the open source principle, and the related, but often not used, opportunity for investigation by external experts can not replace a systematic quality assurance.



## Examples 
* An intern gets full access to all source code resources in a software company. He can be hired by a competitor of the company for the introduction of malicious code into central software components. Due to a lack of quality assurance, this manipulation was only discovered months later and was already being used in productive systems at that time.
* It is not uncommon for them to be used in different manufacturers' products through libraries embedded in OEM firmware or simply copied standard code blocks. For practical reasons, data that are not intended for publication are often used within the development environment. The result of a safety study published in 2015 shows what can happen if there are no necessary adjustments or clean-up steps. The researchers found numerous private keys for FSL certificates and SSH accesses in the published firmware of various products. Among other things, certificates from the SDKs of OEM suppliers were found in the specially created firmware versions of numerous customers. Since their published firmware could also be analyzed by attackers at any time, an enormous number of users of these products were exposed to the potential danger of unauthorized access.
* In 2014, a simple programming bug went down in history as an add-on module to the open source OpenSSL library as a heartbleed bug. By missing a length check, attackers were able to retrieve random memory contents, which could also contain secret cryptographic keys or passwords, from remote sites that use the library to implement TLS. The inadvertently malformed code had been submitted three years earlier by an outside developer and was taken into productive source code the year after by the in-house development team. Finally, the enormous popularity of the OpenSSL library led to the misappropriation of the code throughout the world in a variety of products and systems.
* Probably since the first version in 1989, the source code of the command line interpreter Bash contained a serious vulnerability, which became known in 2014 as Shellshock. It allowed remote attackers, under certain circumstances, to execute execution code on affected systems, e.g. Web server, DHCP Clientsetc.einzuschleusen. Although, thanks to the prudent approach of the discoverer, a first patch was released as soon as it became known, this did not completely solve the problem itself. The following analyzes by security researchers quickly revealed further gaps, which had to be closed by further patches. Although this shows that the public availability of the source code in the worst case can facilitate the analysis of the source code by interested experts and contribute to the rapid resolution of weaknesses. However, the fact that the error has been undiscovered for 25 years clearly shows that this form of case-by-case external quality assurance can by no means replace one's own processes.




