#G 2.190 Insufficient administration model for cloud usage
The decision to use cloud services in an institution requires an adaptation of the existing administration model. In practice, it is frequently observed that there are no requirements for the service administration of a cloud service within a using institution. So too are role definitions for these administrative activities. Delays in the provision of services or failures of a service may be the result.

If cloud services are used, this generally leads to a change in role understanding within the administration. The different aspects of using cloud services are driving the development away from the classic system administrator to the service administrator. Failure to take sufficient account of this process can have a negative impact. For example, the administrators may not be able to provide the necessary understanding for the necessary changes, or they may not be adequately trained for their new task.

An insufficiently adapted administration model for the changed form of service provision can subsequently lead to a loss of service availability. Compared with the internal users of an institution, the IT continues to be the service provider even in the case of cloud use. However, to deliver an agreed service to their internal users, IT staff must use one or more cloud service provider services themselves when using cloud services. This redesigned service delivery inevitably requires a changed administration model.

The changes in the administration model must also be taken into account in resource planning, since otherwise the availability of services can be impaired due to non-smoothly functioning administration processes.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



