#G 2.87 Use of unsafe protocols in public networks
When communicating via public networks, in particular the Internet, there are a number of threats arising from the use of insecure protocols.

An important danger is that confidential information can be confused. Unsecure protocols must, in particular, be those protocols in which information is transmitted in clear text. Since the way of the data packets in the Internet is not predictable, in this case the transmitted information can be read in various places. This is especially critical when it comes to

* Authentication data such as user names and passwords,
* Authorization data, such as transaction numbers for electronic banking or electronic brokerage,


* other confidential information, for example in documents sent by e-mail.


Protocols in which all information is transmitted in plain text are, for example

* Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP, used in communication between web browsers and web servers,
* the TELNET protocol, which is still used in some places for remote logins,
* File Transfer Protocol FTP, which is still widely used to access servers that provide files for download,
* the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP, which is used for the transmission of e-mail,
* the protocols rsh (Remote Shell), rlogin (Remote Login) and other related protocols.


With such protocols, all transmitted information can be read and, if necessary, also changed on every computer via which a corresponding connection is made. Critical is, for example, the transmission of credit card numbers or passwords over HTTP connections on the Internet.

With password sniffing, passwords can be intercepted during the transfer to a system in a first step. This then allows the attacker to access this IT system and then carry out further attacks locally on the computer.

The mentioned protocols (especially HTTP or TELNET) also face so-called man-in-the-middle attacks or session hijacking (see G 5.89 Hijacking of network connections). In this type of attack, an attacker is not only able to read information, but can also actively cause damage by changing ongoing transactions. For example, prices or order quantities for business over the Internet can be changed so that the customer only sees and confirms the item or delivery address that he or she enters, while the attacker has a significantly higher amount Quantity and another delivery address to the seller sends.

In addition to the mentioned protocols, in which all information is transmitted in plain text, there are also those in which at least the transmission of the authentication data is encrypted. However, it still threatens to read the transmitted payload.

Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



