#G 2.123 Lack of or insufficient planning of the use of directory services
The security of a complete system depends on the safety of each individual subsystem. Thus, the security of directory services is based on the security of the base operating system and, in particular, on file system security.

Directory services can be installed and operated on a wide range of operating systems, which can result in a large variety of security settings to be made for each operating system used. This diversity increases the planning requirements and requires appropriate knowledge of all operating systems. If the overall solution is very heterogeneous, there is a risk that the use of directory services will not be planned in detail and deep enough.

Especially for the use of a directory service in the intranet, the planning of the tree structure as well as the mapping of the organizational structure of an institution is of great importance. If the organizational structure is reproduced to the smallest detail, this can lead to problems in the administration. Incorrect planning entails the risk of inconsistencies and excessive complexity in the structure of the directory service, which could result in misconfigurations as well as incorrect or inappropriate operation of the system.

The global tree structure of a directory service has a far-reaching impact on the security of an installation. If, for example, different sub-trees have different security requirements or belong to different organizational areas, this could lead to problematic aspects. Due to the implicit inheritance mechanisms as well as the complexity of the rules for the calculation of the actually effective, effective rights of individual objects, there are high demands on the planning of the system.

If a certificate authority (CA) is used, this constitutes an essential security component of the directory service. Here, too, a faulty planning can considerably impair the security of the directory service.

Since a directory service allows a role-based administration of the directory database as well as the delegation of individual administration tasks, if the administration tasks are planned incorrectly there is a risk that the system will be administered insecurely or inappropriately.

Furthermore, the use of an administration tool could be incorrectly planned and thereby allow unauthorized users access to internals of the directory service installation.

When synchronizing directory data with other directory services, for example using DirXML with eDirectory from Novell, further dangers may arise. With corresponding rights, which depend on the particular target system considered, changes due to the synchronization then also become active in the directory service.

Conversely, external directories could register themselves with their own directory service in order to be informed of changes in the level of information and then to compare their directory. Such a type of synchronization requires a detailed planning, as otherwise sensitive data may be automatically reproduced to the outside in an unintentionally automated manner. Conversely, for example, unintentionally existing data could be overwritten in this way. Planning errors could cause loss of integrity and confidentiality of directory data.

When using login scripts for user groups, inconsistencies with the specified security policy may occur due to missing or inappropriate planning. Furthermore, in the case of missing or inadequate planning, the following additional problems may additionally arise:

* Unless replication and backup have been properly considered, data loss could occur.
* The operation of the Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) could be inad quat.
* The system performance could be too low.


Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



