#G 2.27 Missing or insufficient documentation
Various forms of documentation can be considered: the product description, the administrator and user documentation for using the product and the system documentation.

Missing or inadequate documentation of the IT components used can have a significant impact both in the selection and decision-making process for a product and in the event of a damage event during operation.

If there is insufficient documentation, in the event of damage, for example due to hardware failure or malfunctioning of programs, fault diagnosis and repair can be considerably delayed or completely impossible.

This also applies to the documentation of cable routes and cabling within the building infrastructure. If, due to insufficient documentation, the exact position of pipes is not known, construction work outside or inside a building may result in damage to pipes. This can lead to longer downtimes (occurrence of an emergency) or, under certain circumstances, even to life-threatening dangers, for example due to electric shock.



## Examples 
* If a program caches work results in temporary files without sufficient documentation, this may result in improper protection of temporary files and disclosure of sensitive information. Lacking access protection to these files or improper physical deletion of the temporary-use areas may expose information to unauthorized persons.
* When installing a new software product, existing configurations will be changed. Other, until now error-free running programs, are then incorrectly parameterized and may fail. Through a detailed documentation of the change in the installation of software, the error can be quickly located and fixed.




