#G 2.105 Infringement  against legal regulations and contractual agreements
If information, business processes and IT systems of an institution are insufficiently secured (for example due to inadequate security management), this may lead to violations of legislation with regard to information processing or existing contracts with business partners. Which laws have to be respected depends on the type of institution or its business processes and services. Depending on where the locations of an institution are located, various national and international regulations may also have to be observed. If an institution has insufficient knowledge of international legal requirements (eg data protection, information requirements, insolvency law, liability or information access for third parties), this increases the risk of such breaches. There are threats of legal consequences.

The following examples illustrate possible expressions:

* The handling of personal data in Germany is governed by a variety of regulations. These include the Federal Data Protection Act and the state data protection laws, but also a large number of industry-specific regulations. If personal data (for example, confidential patient data) are transmitted unprotected via public networks during communication between two business units, this may, under certain circumstances, have legal consequences.
* The management of a company is obliged to exercise due care in all business processes. This also includes the observance of recognized safety measures. In Germany, various legal provisions such as KonTraG (Law on Control and Transparency in the Corporate Division), GmbHG (Law on Limited Liability Companies) and AktG (Stock Corporation Act), from which the management and liability obligations of the Managing Director of Risk Management and Information Security apply Derive the management or the management board of a company.
* The orderly processing of booking-related data is governed by various laws and regulations. In Germany, these include the German Commercial Code (for example HGB    238 ff.) And the German Tax Code (AO). The proper processing of information includes, of course, their secure processing. Both have to be proven regularly in many countries, for example by auditors as part of the audit of the annual financial statements. If serious safety concerns are detected, no positive test report can be produced.
* In many industries (such as the automotive industry), it is customary for manufacturers to commit their suppliers to compliance with certain quality and safety standards. In this context, information security requirements are also increasing. If a contracting party fails to comply with contractually regulated security requirements, this can result in contractual penalties, but also in contract resolutions, including the loss of business relationships.
* To achieve economies of scale, many cloud service providers offer their services in an international environment. Thus, the providers are often subject to other national laws. For the cloud user, it is often very difficult to know and properly assess the relevant laws and regulations (for example, data protection, information obligations, insolvency law, liability, information access for third parties).
* Cloud services providers provide inadequate information about the location of the data. So it is not clear which government agencies can access the information.


Only a few security requirements arise directly from laws. However, the legislation is generally based on the state of the art as a general basis for assessing the degree of security attainable. If the existing security measures in an institution are not in a healthy relationship to the values ??to be protected and the state of the art, this can have serious consequences.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



