#G 2.163 Non-compliance with purpose limitation in the processing of personal data
Personal data may only be processed for the purpose for which it was collected or first stored. There is a risk that these data will also be processed for other purposes, since this saves the time and effort required for a new survey and informing those affected.

If personal data that has been stored solely for purposes of data protection control, information security or to ensure the proper operation of a data processing system is used for other purposes, this is not permitted.

There is a risk that the purpose limitation will be disregarded, in particular with regard to automated call-off procedures and other transmissions as well as with links or evaluations of data.

A processing of personal data in violation of the earmarking can result in a fine or imprisonment or lead to employment or employment law consequences. The person concerned may assert a right to compensation.



## Examples 
* Purpose limitation is violated if a management company uses log files that record the logging in and logging out of IT systems for reasons of information security and privacy for presence and behavioral control.
* In a log, the number of attacks is logged when creating documents for costing purposes. In addition, this is improperly used to determine the stopping power of the employees.
* In the canteen of a company, food is paid for via a combined employee and canteen card. The canteen billing data is used to develop individual health care programs without the employees having given their consent.




