#G 2.70 Incorrect or inadequate partitioning and replication planning in Novell eDirectory
Partitioning and replicating the eDirectory directory service is an essential part of planning the mission.

Partitioning is a division of the directory data of the eDirectory into individual subareas (partitions). This division can not be arbitrary, but must correspond to certain rules that result from the logic of the hierarchical tree structure. The purpose of the partitioning is on the one hand a load distribution of the directory system on several parts, on the other hand can thus a physical separation of the storage locations of directory data - z. B. corresponding to the locations of an organization. Furthermore, partitions can also represent administrative units of the directory system.



Replication of partitions of eDirectory primarily serves to increase the availability and load distribution of the directory system. Furthermore, the reliability is improved by the redundancy in the data storage.

Planning is also critical because subsequent changes to the partition and replication settings are possible, but may incur inconsistencies.

Of course, changes to the eDirectory take a certain amount of time until the new settings have spread out everywhere. This may result in a time window within which the eDirectory is inconsistent. Such inconsistencies can be a problem especially in the definition of the authentication data or the access rights to eDirectory objects.

Partitioning the eDirectory directory has direct consequences for access control lists (ACL). In order to preserve the inheritance rules for an existing eDirectory tree, partitioning causes the root object of the new partition to be notified by the system of the higher-level ACL as an inherited ACL.

Defining the partitioning of the eDirectory directory service has a direct impact on the replication activities of the entire system. In order to be able to search for objects efficiently via the entire tree (tree walking), the eDirectory automatically creates so-called subordinate reference replicas, which essentially contain jump addresses. If planning is not possible (eg if the tree structure is too shallow), then very extensive replication rings are generated here. If a replication ring becomes very large, there is a certain probability that at least one eDirectory server of the ring is currently unavailable. In such a case, error and status messages are generated on each additional eDirectory server of the replication ring. This can lead to increased administration overhead, which can extend over large parts of the directory tree.

In addition, improper or inadequate planning of partitioning and directory service replication may also result in data loss, inconsistencies in data management, poor directory service availability and overall poor system performance, as well as system failures.

Status: as of 2005



