#G 2.196 Lack of cost-benefit analysis of cloud usage over the entire lifecycle
In practice, due to the great popularity and variety of cloud services, it can be observed that using institutions reduce the expected costs, often associated with the gross amount of the expected benefits.

The abandonment of a realistic cost-benefit analysis of cloud usage over the entire life cycle often entails financial losses for the using institution. When looking at costs, a distinction must be made between capital expenditure (capex - capital expenditure) and costs for operational business (opex - operational expenditure). Cloud offerings often advertise that investment costs are offset by operating costs that scale less in the long term and better with actual demand.

When switching to cloud services, there are additional costs for the ,chat, as existing services and the necessary infrastructure can not be replaced immediately.

In many institutions, however, a cost-benefit analysis only considers the costs for the operational business operations, since cloud services are generally billed according to consumption and thus classically regarded as OPEX.

When deciding to use cloud services, a number of costs are often not or insufficiently included in a cost-benefit analysis, such as:

* Costs for the necessary adaptation of the processes or the existing infrastructure to the cloud usage
* Costs for fallback scenarios in case of any problems
* Costs associated with possible vendor lock-in, that is, the dependency on a specific cloud service provider
* Costs of conducting training, both for administrators and for users
* Cost of performing audits on cloud service providers
* Costs associated with a need to adjust other services as a result of cloud usage, such as backup or accounting accounting


As a result of a lack of or insufficient cost-benefit analysis over the entire lifecycle, services provided by cloud use may prove unprofitable. In addition, the benefits must be compared with the costs. It may happen that cloud services do not generate significant benefits in productive operation. If such cloud services are returned to the internal IT, the institution incurs costs both for the outsourcing of the service to the cloud and for the later reintegration.

In addition, there are other aspects that can be considered as a threat to the use of cloud services and that entail both financial risks and risks to the availability of the service:

* The estimation of the expected pay-per-use costs is wrong or incomplete. The reason for this is, for example, the emergence of a typical user behavior and the disregard of seasonal fluctuations. This is particularly problematic if the affected cloud services are initiated by external users and the institution thus has difficulty in influencing the actual consumption.
* Risk assessments, such as those that occur with respect to IT failures, do not adapt to the cloud usage model or these risks are estimated. While some risks are being transferred to the cloud service provider, it is often overlooked that this may create new risks for the institution.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



