#G 2.207 Unsecured input and output interfaces for embedded systems
The interfaces of an embedded system are potential attack points for intrusion attempts. This includes interfaces at all levels of the ISO / OSI layer model and all the transmission media used. If the access is not controlled via the interfaces or the control mechanisms are too weak, an attacker can invade the system, read and write data unauthorized and initiate follow-up attacks. It could, unnoticed, connect espionage or sabotage devices such as miniaturized controllers or data loggers.

At the microcontroller level, if I / O ports are connected to the I / O lines, I / O lines may be used to record signals or output signals may be recorded. If a reset input is present, an attacker could control it and temporarily shut down the system.

When the embedded system communicates via Ethernet and TCP / IP, an attacker can attempt to intervene in the communication, intercept, import, and fetch data packets. It can scan for open TCP / UDP ports and make an attack on them.

If the embedded system communicates with other systems over the air, it is exposed to the dangers normally encountered in this area, and an attacker could potentially invade without direct physical access. Examples of this are WLAN or Bluetooth, but also other means of communication are conceivable.

Maintenance and debugging interfaces can offer a variety of access and access options, as they are often implemented using very simple protocols without authentication or logging mechanisms.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



