#G 2.184 Lack of or insufficient rights and roles in cloud infrastructures
In the cloud environment, the sharing of IT systems among multiple institutions is widespread. If in such an environment the enforcement of a role and rights concept is completely abandoned or if this is insufficiently implemented, this represents a danger for the institution. Unauthorized access to application data or to the components of a storage solution k Can be the result.

The risk of such unauthorized access always exists within a client or even across several clients (cross-client). It is therefore necessary to use an adequate rights and role concept.

The following expressions for unauthorized access to cloud infrastructures must be distinguished:

* A user can access the infrastructure of the provider and, if necessary, perform manipulation or delete data within it.
* A user can access another user's data and manipulate or delete it.


Depending on the extent of the access, all three security objectives (confidentiality, availability and integrity of the information) may be at risk.



## Examples 
* An institution uses cloud services to flexibly expand its available storage capacity. To manage or control the services, the institution has the role of a cloud administrator. This role and associated rights are poorly defined. As a result, through inheritance from the cloud administration console, the employee administers (unintentionally) the storage solution used, changing the settings for LUN masking or LUN mapping, for example. These incorrect settings give a user unauthorized access to data.




