#G 2.78 Inappropriate updating of data during archiving
Disks can become obsolete both physically and technologically. Data formats are also occasionally extended to include new syntactic and structural features. Both of these can lead to archived data being unreadable (see G 2.72 Insufficient Migration of Archive Systems).

For this reason, electronically archived documents should be copied to new data carriers or transferred to newer, more up-to-date data formats for a longer period of time. There is a risk that data will be removed from its document context during the transfer to new data carriers or that inadvertent semantic changes will be made when copying into other data formats.

In addition, there are possibilities for manipulation during the transfer of the data to a new storage medium. Here, even data stored on WORM media can be changed.

After the migration of data, there may be a need to destroy old volumes. For this purpose reference is made to the danger G 2.81 Insufficient destruction of data carriers during archiving.



## Examples 
* As part of the migration of the databases, previous versions of versioned documents are deleted for reasons of space, even though they are still needed for verification purposes.
* Files that were originally stored on WORM media in a revision-proof way are transferred to new data carriers. Files are exchanged during the copying process, ie. Some files will not be transferred to the new media, but instead will insert fake files.




