#G 2.3 Missing, inappropriate, incompatible resources
Insufficient supply of equipment can significantly affect operations. Faults can arise if the required equipment is not available in sufficient quantity or is not made available on time.

It may also be the case that inappropriate or even incompatible equipment is procured which can not be used as a result.



## Examples 
* For the newly leased Internet connection, it is forgotten to transfer the charge for the equipment to the operator with the result that the connection is not activated. The IT procedure that is to use this connection can therefore only be put into operation with a delay.
* An inappropriate resource, for example, is a complex and time-critical application, e.g. For example, a graphics-intensive CAD application that should be installed on a computer that does not have enough power.
* An example of incompatible equipment is interconnecting cables of different pin assignments for connecting printers.
* Given the multitude of possibilities for exchanging data between two IT systems, the problem often arises that each of the two computers has at least three interfaces for data exchange, but unfortunately these are not compatible. Typical questions before each data exchange are for example: floppy disk, CD-ROM, DVD, USB stick, Bluetooth?
* On the workstation PCs, a new version of the operating system is to be installed. However, some of the hardware components that are used with the new operating system version are not executable because no driver support is offered for the new operating system version.
* The storage space of hard disks in PCs and servers as well as mobile data carriers is constantly increasing. Unfortunately, it is often forgotten to procure IT components and data carriers that offer sufficient capacity for regular data backup.




