#G 2.155 Lack of or insufficient planning of OpenLDAP
OpenLDAP is a complex application with a modular design and can be used with many other applications. This results in a great deal of complexity, which requires systematic planning of the OpenLDAP deployment.

Missing or inadequate planning can lead to the following problems, for example:

* Backends Access to the database used by OpenLDAP is not done directly by the slapd server, but is handled by one or more so-called backends. Selecting the backend (s) and choosing the appropriate directives and parameters will directly affect the features that OpenLDAP can offer. For example, using the backend back-ldif for data storage to bypass the installation of an additional database, only rudimentary functions of the directory service are available. The support of a large amount of users or other objects is then not possible.
* OverlaysThe adaptability of OpenLDAP results to a large extent from so-called overlays. These control the flow of data to and from the backends, allowing additional functionality without having to adjust or reprogram backends. The lack of planning for overlay usage may lead to the use of overlays that do not or not sufficiently perform the desired function, that perform OpenLDAP operations that are not needed, or that interfere with OpenLDAP functionality , For example, if the debug function of the slapd server itself and the auditlog and accesslog overlays are not scheduled correctly, necessary logging of access to the directory service may fail or be inefficient. Another example is the overlay unique when applied to internal operating parameters. This may cause OpenLDAP to run into undefined system states. If multiple overlays are used together (stacked), their effect also depends on the order of their call, which is why a missing plan can cause errors.
* ApplicationsOpenLDAP works closely with other applications and provides these functions. For example, OpenLDAP can handle the user management and address book function for e-mail programs, Internet servers and other applications. Without other applications, OpenLDAP will also be unable to meet the specifications of the LDAPv3 protocol. For example, a database (typically Oracle's BerkeleyDB) is required to store directory service objects for OpenLDAP. In addition, OpenLDAP requires utilities for secure authentication (such as Cyrus SASL) and encrypted communication (SSL / TLS). When connecting to other applications, there may be many errors due to lack of or insufficient planning. This could result in the use of incorrect versions of one or more programs whose compatibility is not guaranteed. Very often it is forgotten to protect the interfaces between the applications so that data is exchanged without encryption via network connections.
* System EnvironmentIn the case of missing or inadequate scheduling, OpenLDAP may run in an inadequate system environment. If, for example, a distributed file system such as NFS (Network File System) is used for the data management of OpenLDAP, then file functions that use OpenLDAP or BerkeleyDB are not available. This applies, among other things, to the locking function, with which the database of the directory service can be securely locked during use for parallel access by another user.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



