#G 2.111 Compromise of credentials when service providers change
If an IT service provider is changed, various credentials typically have to be changed here. This then leads to a variety of communication between old and new credentials. If these data are exchanged insecurely, there is a risk that the confidentiality of the credentials and, indirectly, the integrity of the IT environment will be compromised.

The login accounts used by the service provider are usually those with extensive authorizations in the considered information network. Normally, all passwords should not be known to anyone except the user. Old passwords are also considered as confidential information. In practice, it often happens that a current central password is communicated to the new service provider. Until the new service provider has provided all consoles and applications with a new password, the old password could be misused by unauthorized third parties. Depending on the configuration of the system (eg service accounts, certificate services) and organization, it may not be possible to change the password in a short time at a reasonable cost.

Often, the client himself is not able to administer user accounts for external service providers in a secure manner and may have to leave this to the new service provider. There are situations such as the sharing of user accounts (account sharing) or the dangers described in G 3.16 Incorrect Administration of Access and Access Rights and G3.33 Unsuitable Handling of Passwords or Other Authentication Mechanisms.

In some cases, the client himself either no longer knows about login accounts with administrative authorizations or only because of regular information from the service provider about the current password (account sharing). In each of these cases the decision-making authority and the authority to act are with the service provider. The client no longer has any access data known to him with which he can implement strategic decisions. This situation corresponds to a high degree of outsourcing. It poses a high risk to system security if the outsourcing rules and safeguards do not meet security requirements and are not unequivocally set out in Service Level Agreements (SLA)

Overall, there is always the situation that critical administrative accounts are handled even less carefully than normal user accounts, because established corporate or authority standards for dealing with user accounts are ignored and because no policy or policy has been established for dealing with administrative accounts when service providers change.



