#G 2.66 Insufficient security management
The multitude of methods and procedures on how information is handled, processed and stored in business processes can quickly lead to the misconception that the protection requirements of business-critical information are misinterpreted and therefore insufficiently protected. An organized approach in the planning, execution and control of the security process is therefore imperative. Experience has shown that it is not enough simply to order the implementation of security measures, as the individual users, especially the IT users, are often overburdened by lack of specialist knowledge and insufficient time resources. As a consequence, it is often omitted to implement safety measures at all, so that a satisfactory safety state is not achieved. Even if a reasonable level of security has been achieved, the security process needs to be constantly adapted and improved to sustain it on the fly.

Inadequate security management is often a symptom of a poor overall organization of the security process. Examples of specific hazards resulting from inadequate safety management are:

* Lack of personal responsibility: If a security management team is not established or an IT security officer is appointed in an institution and the personal responsibility for the implementation of individual measures is not clearly defined, it is likely that many employees will lose their personal responsibility Reject responsibility for information security by referring to higher-level hierarchy levels. As a result, security measures are not implemented, since these initially almost always represent additional work in the usual workflow.
* Lack of support from the management level: As a rule, IT security officers do not come from the level of authority or company management. Unless security officers are fully supported by senior management, it may be difficult to effectively require the necessary action from those in the line structure above them. In this case, the security process is not completely feasible.
* Inadequate strategic and conceptual requirements: In many institutions, although a security concept is created, its content is often only known to a few insiders. This leads to the conscious or unconsciously not adhering to the requirements in places where organizational effort would be required. Insofar as the security concept contains strategic objectives, these are often viewed as a mere collection of declarations of intent and insufficient resources are made available for their implementation. It is often assumed that security is automatically produced in an automated environment. Cases of damage in one's own or similarly structured institutions are at times a trigger for more or less intense actionism, in which sub-aspects are often improved at best.
* Insufficient or misguided investment: The governance of an institution must be informed through regular and clear prioritized safety reports on the security status of business processes, IT systems and applications, and on existing deficiencies. Without adequate information, the management level assumes false premises. Then it is likely that insufficient resources will be made available for the security process or that they will not be used properly. In the latter case, it may happen that an exaggerated level of safety in one subarea is accompanied by serious shortcomings in another. Often it can also be observed that expensive technical security systems are used incorrectly and thus are ineffective or even themselves become a source of danger.
* Insufficient enforceability of security measures: Achieving a consistent and adequate level of security requires that different areas of responsibility within an institution cooperate with each other. Missing strategic statements and unclear objectives sometimes lead to different interpretations of the importance of information security. This may have the consequence that the necessary cooperation ultimately fails because of supposedly lacking necessity or insufficient prioritization of the task information security and thus the enforceability of the security measures is not given.
* Lack of Update in the Security Process: New business processes, applications and IT systems, as well as new threats, permanently affect the security state within an institution. If an effective revision concept is lacking, which also increases the awareness of the new threats, the level of security is reduced and real security gradually becomes a dangerous false security.


Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



