#G 2.202 Lock-in effect
Originally from the field of economics, the term lock-in effect describes a condition whose change can only be achieved by a very high expenditure.

From the point of view of an institution, this effort usually takes the form of so-called switching costs. These costs describe u. a. the necessary financial expenses that have to be incurred, for example, for changing an operating system. If these costs turn out to be very high, it may be unnecessary to switch to an ausit view meaningful change to an alternative operating system environment.

In the IT environment, these lock-in effects have always occurred. Some examples are shown below:

printer

Vendor Lock, due to its complexity, interacts with hardware (printers) and other components (such as cartridges for toner or ink).

Essential functions of the printer and the associated electronics were shifted by the manufacturer into the associated cartridges or cartridges. As a rule, these are protected by patents or technical measures from being replicated or refilled by alternative providers. Users are thereby limited to the printer manufacturer as a supplier of consumables.

file formats

Application programs often store data in proprietary, undisclosed file formats. A later reading in or further processing of the data is then only possible with the programs of the respective manufacturer. The development of alternative software is hampered by a lack of knowledge about the file formats or excluded by patent claims associated with the proprietary data formats.

Trusted Platform Module (TPM), Digital Rights Management (DRM)

The crypto chipTP built into computer systems not only implements or supports security functions. Using a TPM can also prevent unwanted software from being started or data being decoded by other applications. This control then always lies with the component (software or operating system) which has initialized the TP for the first time. Digital Rights Management (DRM) techniques may also limit how system users can access data, for example, by preventing the playback of media data in another application or geographic region.

When using these techniques, migration to products from other manufacturers can be made more difficult or even impossible.

Cloud services

Often, apps offer the ability to store data directly in the cloud. However, access to this data within the cloud is usually only possible through the use of special software or apps from the respective cloud provider. Should access to this data be required for relevant platforms of the organization, but an app or dedicated software should not be available for the platform, then data must be transferred to other stores and, if necessary, kept redundant.

BitLocker on Windows

The encryption software BitLocker introduced with Windows Vista offers the possibility to encrypt also external drives. If BitLocker is used as encryption software, there is a risk that relevant other operating systems of the institution will not be able to use the encrypted data. If necessary, the data must then be time-consuming and labor-intensive with an alternative product and re-encrypted.

Apps

An integral part of the Windows 8 operating system are so-called apps. These touch-optimized applications are provided by both Microsoft and other vendors. If special applications of an institution are provided in the form of apps, the access of alternative platforms may not be possible as these apps are not available.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



