#G 2.19 Insufficient key management with encryption
If encryption systems are used to protect the confidentiality of data to be transmitted, due to inadequate key management, the desired protection may be undermined if:

* the cryptographic keys are generated or stored in an unsecured environment,
* unsuitable or easily guessable keys are used; and
* the keys used for encryption or decryption do not reach the communication partner in a secure way.




## Examples 
* The simplest negative example is the sending of the encrypted information and the used key on the same data medium. In this case, anyone who gains possession of the data carrier can decrypt the information, provided that the encryption process is known.
* Cryptographic keys are generally generated by random processes and may be changed later. If the random source used is unsuitable, keys may be generated that are insecure.
* For master keys in particular, it is crucial for security that no weak cryptographic keys are generated. These can be keys that are easy to guess or unsuitable for encryption (example: weak and semi-secure DES keys). If, during the derivation of keys from master keys, it is not checked whether a weak key was generated, a weak key can be used in active mode.
* When used in triple-DESidentical subkeys, Triple DES encryption works just like a simple DES encryption. The security gain is lost.
* In service-oriented architectures (SOA), especially those that are highly distributed, it is necessary to automatically generate and manage the cryptographic keys. Key generation and management are subject to special risks if they are not adequately secured.
* But not only the disclosure, but also the loss of cryptographic keys can lead to big problems. Cryptographic keys may be lost or forgotten, become inaccessible, for example if the keyholder has left the company or is being destroyed by accidentally deleting or altering it, for example, through data carrier failure or bit error. If the keys are no longer available, protected data can no longer be decrypted or authenticated.




