#G 2.115 Inappropriate handling of the default security groups as of Windows Server 2003
In the Windows Server 2003 or later operating system, additional default groups have been added to the built-in security groups known from Windows 2000 Server. The rights of these groups can not be limited in part and the authorizations are not documented in detail by the manufacturer. Certain permissions are not displayed and are not administrable, such as the Network Configuration Operators group.

However, ignorance of how these groups work and their improper use may lead to the fraudulent or accidental misuse of administrative privileges and misconfiguration of the system.

New groups starting with Windows Server 2003 are:

* Help Service GroupThis help and support center group is not required for server administration and operation, but it does have the potential for misuse or misconfiguration because the group can be assigned extensive permissions for administration tools can.
* Network Configuration Operators Members of this group can set and manipulate the parameters of the TCP / IP stack, making the server unreachable or open for attacks.
* System monitor users and performance log users System monitor users are required to run and use the Performance Monitor utility (perfmon.exe) without requiring special permissions. Members of the Performance Log Users group can view and manage Performance Monitor logs and configure the logging of monitoring data. You have direct access to a portion of the Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) database. Performance and usage profiles are safety-critical information, as well as information about failures and malfunctions that could be the reason for an attack attempt. It is a danger if user accounts inadvertently gain additional privileges through these groups.
* Remote Desktop Users Members of this group can log in and work from another computer using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) on a member server or standalone server as if they were sitting directly in front of the physical system. This poses a risk because any ordinary user can sign in this way without the need for special additional permissions.
* Distributed COM usersUnder Windows Server 2003 with Service Pack 1, more granular Distributed COM Objects (DCOM) authorization structures are available to better control the execution of COM modules and the activation of COM objects can. In particular, the execution by means of remote procedure calls (RPC) from other clients can thus be better controlled. Many Windows features can be controlled through COM objects, including Windows Update, RSoP, and Certificate Services. The permissions are configured in the Component Services console. By default, Distributed COM users have the highest privilege limit, even beyond normal administrators. Incorrect use of this group may invalidate the improved DCOM security features, or even increase system vulnerability.
* Incoming forest trust relationships This group has been new to domain controllers since Windows 2003. Members of this group can create inbound unidirectional trusts to the Active Directory forest of an information network. Trust relationships can exercise rights in the other domain environment, so misusing or neglecting to deal with this group can give attackers a variety of ways to influence the entire information network.


Windows Server 2008 has more groups after the installation. This applies to so-called stand-alone systems as well as to servers within a domain.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



