#G 2.119 Unsuitable selection of WLAN authentication methods
The selection of the authentication methods to be used must be based on the protection requirements of the data transported in a WLAN. Initially, WEP is uncertain and offers a variety of vulnerabilities, such as extracting keys from the data packets. These could then be used to successfully access a WLAN.

If the key material used for the authentication or encryption in the WLAN is not distributed with sufficient care or stored with sufficient certainty, the methods used to achieve this level of security may be completely worthless. Too simple passwords or insufficiently protected certificates provide every attacker with valid access to Wi-Fi. In a WPA-secured WLAN, for example, pre-shared keys represent a security gap if they have not been suitably selected, ie are not complicated enough.

But there are also EAP methods that pose a threat because of some vulnerabilities. For example, EAP-MD5CHAP uses an authentication method that requires, inter alia, mutual knowledge of an unscrambled password. Furthermore, EAP-MD5 does not support key generation and therefore can not be used directly with IEEE 802.11i. In addition, cryptographic weaknesses of MD5 are now known, so that this hash process is no longer considered safe.

From a cryptographic point of view, EAP-PEAP complains that PEAP only checks the identity of the server to secure the outer tunnel, but not that of the client.

Some implementations of EAP methods also contain vulnerabilities. For example, Cisco's proprietary EAP-LEAP is vulnerable to so-called dictionary attacks, and there are tools that are already exploiting this vulnerability, and even strong passwords are ineffective.

It is also disadvantageous that EAP-LEAP must be explicitly supported by all WLAN components and there is no interoperability between EAP-LEAP and other EAP methods, as required by IEEE 802.1X.

Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



