#G 2.114 Inconsistent Windows Server security settings on SMB, RPC, and LDAP
The inherently unsafe communication protocols SMB / CIFS and LDAP were equipped with advanced signing and encryption mechanisms on Windows servers. As of Windows Server 2003, some of the mechanisms are already preconfigured in the local security policy settings. The use of these mechanisms involves communication with all participating Windows servers in the network as well as many basic services of Windows and affects the entire network area. If these settings are not properly and consistently set across the board, the result is hard-to-see side effects, including malfunctioning of individual Windows servers and clients.

Incorrect configuration, incorrect procedures, and incorrect activation order when making the signing and encryption settings for SMB / CIFS and LDAP can severely affect the availability of large parts of the Windows network. In larger environments, putting the Windows network back into a working state can be very costly, since in such a situation many network-based management and control functions are disrupted.

In particular, for domain controllers, inconsistent settings within the domain pose a major threat, as symptoms (disruption of administrative functions such as group policies) may not be noticeable until after a certain period of time.

Older versions of Windows are not easily compatible with the increased security settings for SMB / CIFS, RPC, and LDAP. For example, trust relationships without Kerberos authentication, as used in large, cross-location information networks, are not readily compatible with the increased security settings. Insufficient analysis of all affected IT systems and inadequate deployment planning may cause unexpected communication disruptions in all areas to severely limit overall availability. Inadequate planning can result in high follow-up costs during implementation.



