#G 2.22 Missing or insufficient evaluation of log data
Functionality is integrated in many IT systems and applications in order to be able to log certain events in their chronological order. As a result, large amounts of log data are often generated in an information network, which can only be evaluated with difficulty and with a great deal of time. However, a meaningful evaluation of this protocol data is necessary, for example, to carry out fault analyzes and to be able to identify attacks.

Various logging concepts are used in the life cycle of an IT system. Thus, during the development phase, detailed logs are created to facilitate problem analysis in case of errors.

In the introduction phase, protocols are used to, among other things, optimize the performance of the IT system in the production environment or to test the effectiveness of the security concept in practice for the first time.

In the productive phase, protocols are mainly used to ensure proper operation. Among other things, security violations in the IT system or attack attempts are subsequently identified via log data. Logging may also be used to investigate and deterring potential customers. By means of a regular evaluation of the log data, the data for preventive measures can be used like a early warning system, which means that in the event of a malicious attack on an IT system, it can be detected or thwarted at an early stage can.



## Examples 
* An attacker attempts to crash the database server with a DOS attack. This attack is logged on the relevant IT system. However, the attack remains undetected by the lack of evaluation of the log data, and the attacker can redo the DoS attack until successful.
* In an attack on a web server, an RPC vulnerability was used to invade the system. Although the web server has generated corresponding log data, these were discarded due to incorrect filter settings on the central logging server. Thus, no automatic alarm was triggered, and the attack remained undetected.




