#G 2.125 Incorrect or inadequate planning of access to the directory service
If the granting of access and access rights to the directory service is inadmissible or regulated with inappropriate tools, this can quickly lead to serious security gaps, for example, through the proliferation of rights. The management of access and access rights is an extremely labor-intensive task which, in extreme cases, requires many manual steps which can lead to errors and shortcomings in the overview of work carried out.

In organizations where there is no overview of all the users and their rights profiles set up on the different IT systems, this typically results in the finding of accounts of users who have long since left the institution or who are changing Activities too many rights have been suspended.

When the access and access rights management tools are poorly selected, they are often not flexible enough to adapt to changes in the organizational structure or changes in IT systems.

The role separation of users may have been incorrect, resulting in security vulnerabilities, such as misallocation of users to groups or excessive privilege assignment. Users may have been assigned to roles that do not match their tasks (too many or too few rights) or that they may not have due to their role (role conflicts).

User access to the directory service is often perLDAP interface, which is a widely used Internet standard. This access requires in-depth planning, especially with regard to the directory service rights required for the sensible use of the applications. Thus, the planning of LDAP access depends significantly on the usage scenario of the directory service.

Inadequate planning as to whether and what data, such as user passwords, may be transmitted in plain text may cause inconsistencies or contradictions with organizational security policies. Also, improper planning of directory service security measures and techniques can lead to the protection of confidential data from incompatibilities or failure of encryption.

The lack of a root certificate in the directory service or a non-verifiable certificate chain will prevent mutual authentication to use the directory service.

The variety of configuration options for LDAP access to the directory service can quickly result in misconfigurations with the following vulnerabilities:

* Unauthorized access to the directory service,
* wrong allocation of access rights,
* Spotting information in plain language,
*  verification of encrypted user passwords,
* inadequate availability of the overall system as well
* LDAP access error, especially for network-based applications.


Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



