#G 2.203 Integrated cloud functionality
Newer operating systems and applications often include features that store and synchronize data using third-party services (cloud computing). This applies in particular to applications that are aimed primarily at the use of mobile devices (apps). The application data is often stored in cloud services of large, international providers.

There is a risk of unconsciously (or at least carelessly) using cloud services for possibly sensitive or personal data. At the same time, violations of data protection laws may result if data is stored by third parties.

The main problems are:

* Data is stored outside the borders of the EU in countries without adequate data protection.
* Providers of cloud services may be subject to a jurisdiction that is problematic for the protection of critical business secrets.
* Contracts are usually implicitly based on general terms and conditions of the cloud providers and do not meet German data protection requirements.
* The requirements of the Federal Data Protection Act on order data processing are not fulfilled with regard to selection, testing and control of the service provider.
* Under certain circumstances, the data is synchronized with private devices that are operated with the same account.


Not only are existing data stored in the cloud service at risk, but also meta-data, which only arises through the use of the cloud service. These include z. B.

* Usage times of the apps and the system resulting from the logging of logins and logoffs
* Links to other people,
* Relationship networks that can be created by third parties, such as For example, the tracking of shared files, visited web pages or used email and chat addresses,
* Location data of mobile devices, even if the geolocation is switched off, by z. B. the dynamic IP addresses of the Internet providers assigned to the device are referenced via Geo IP databases,
* Configuration and other data that the used apps transfer to the respective publisher,
* Combining multiple such capabilities with shared authentication information (such as Windows Live ID).


Specific examples are:

* As of Windows 8.1, Microsoft's OneDrive cloud storage solution is an integral part of the operating system. It is not possible to disable OneDrive via the graphical user interface.
* By default, Windows 8 provides the ability to secure the Bitlocker recovery key directly from the Microsoft account in the cloud, leaving critical cryptographic secrets in the hands of others.
* If a user with a previously activated Microsoft account logs in to a new device, the Microsoft cloud services he uses are automatically set up there. In addition, data from the company or the authorities could be transferred unintentionally to employees' private devices if they also use private IT systems with the same Microsoft account.


Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



