#G 2.69 Lack of or insufficient planning for the use of Novell eDirectory
As a tool for resource management in networks, eDirectory is designed for use in a heterogeneous IT environment under a variety of supported operating systems. The safety of the overall system is of course dependent on the safety of each subsystem. Operating system security and especially the security of the file system are the foundation on which the security of eDirectory is based.

Since eDirectory and the deployable client software can be installed and operated on a large number of operating systems, this can result in a high diversity of the security settings to be made for each operating system used. This increases the planning requirements and requires appropriate knowledge of all involved operating systems. There is therefore the danger that the use of eDirectory will not be planned in detail and deep enough if the overall solution is very heterogeneous.

For use on the intranet, the planning of the tree structure and the mapping of the company infrastructure are of great importance. Incorrect planning creates the risk of inconsistencies and excessive complexity in the structure of the directory service. This may result in misconfiguration and incorrect or inappropriate operation of the system.

The global tree structure of the eDirectory directory service has a profound impact on the security of an eDirectory installation. Problematic aspects arise here especially when the different sub-trees have different security requirements or belong to different organizational areas. Due to the implicit inheritance mechanisms and the complexity of the rules for the calculation of the actually effective, effective rights of individual objects, this places high demands on the planning of the system.

The implicit CA (Certificate Authority) is an integral part of the security of eDirectory. Again, a faulty planning can compromise the security of the directory service.

Planning accessibility to the directory service is a core topic for system security. This applies both for use on the intranet and especially for the use of eDirectory as an LDAP server on the Internet.

Furthermore, planning the administration of the directory service is an important topic. eDirectory allows the implementation of a role-based administration concept as well as the delegation of administration tasks. This is especially important in terms of security administration. The planning of the administration requires utmost care and prudence, otherwise there is a risk that unauthorized system users will receive unwanted access.

In addition, the eDirectory software provides the iMonitor tool, which allows Web-based monitor access to the eDirectory servers and the directory system. Incorrect planning of the use of this functionality may allow access to the internals of the eDirectory installation under circumstances of unauthorized users.

An important point in the operation of eDirectory is also the partitioning of the directory service and its replication. Here, inadequate planning can lead to poor performance, inconsistencies in data management and even data loss.

The eDirectory directory service allows a role-based administration of the directory database as well as the delegation of individual administration tasks. The planning of the administration roles and the delegation options must be carried out in accordance with the security policy to be defined (see M .2.238 Defining a Security Policy for Novell eDirectory). If the administration tasks are missing or incorrectly scheduled, there is a risk that the system will be administered insecurely or inappropriately.

eDirectory allows the synchronization of directory data with other directory services via DirXML. DirXML consists of a kernel (engine) and specialized drivers (eg for Windows 2000 Active Directory, Lotus Notes, SAP R / 3, Netscape, etc.) for the exchange of directory information in XML format. The foreign directory services can communicate changes to the eDirectory via a so-called publisher channel. With corresponding rights, which depend on the particular target system under consideration, these changes then become active in eDirectory as well. Conversely, the external directories can be registered with the eDirectory in order to find out about changes in the eDirectory information stand via this subscriber channel and then to synchronize their directory. This synchronization requires detailed planning, since otherwise sensitive data may be automatically reproduced to the outside in an unintentionally automated manner. Conversely, under certain circumstances, unintentionally existing data can be overwritten in this way. To protect the data during transport, SSL can be used. In doing so, errors in the planning can lead to the loss of integrity and confidentiality of directory data.

Last but not least, the use of login scripts for users and user groups has to be planned. Incorrect or inappropriate planning can lead to inconsistencies with the defined security policy.

In addition, in the case of missing or inadequate planning, the following problems may arise:

* The administration access to the system can be insufficiently secured
* the operation of the public key infrastructure can be inadmissible,
* the system performance will be too low and
* Data loss can occur if replication and backup have not been sufficiently considered.


Status: as of 2005



