#G 2.67 Inappropriate administration of access, access and access rights
If the allocation of access, access and access rights is poorly regulated, this will quickly lead to serious security gaps, eg. through wild growth in the assignment of rights.

When introducing identity management systems or revisions, it often turns out that different people in different organizational units are responsible for the allocation of authorizations. This quickly causes users to get permissions on demand, or vice versa, just over unnecessarily complicated ways to get them. As a result, missing authorizations can hinder daily work on the one hand, and on the other hand it can lead to assigning authorizations without requirement and thus posing a security risk.

In many institutions, the management of access and access rights is an extremely labor-intensive task because it is poorly regulated or the wrong tools are used. This can z. B. much manual work is required, which is also very error-prone. In addition, many different roles and groups of people are often involved in this process, so that it is easy to lose track of the tasks that have been performed.

Furthermore, there are also institutions in which there is no overview of all users set up on the various IT systems and their rights profile. Typically this leads to the fact that there are always access authorizations or accounts of users who have long since left the company or who have too many rights due to changing activities.

When the tools for managing access, access and access rights have been badly selected, they are often not flexible enough to adapt to changes in the organizational structure or change inIT systems.

The role separation of users may have been incorrect, resulting in security vulnerabilities, such as misallocation of users to groups or excessive privilege assignment. Users can be assigned roles that do not correspond to their tasks (too many or too few rights) or that they may not have due to their tasks (role conflicts).

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



