#G 2.204 TPM usage
The Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is a hardware chip that adds basic security features to an IT system:

* Creation and secure storage of cryptographic keys,
* Hardware-based cryptographic functions,
* Monitoring platform integrity,
* Platform authentication,
* Random number generator.


The TPM is not bound to a user, but to a hardware instance, which is checked by the manufacturer and provided with the initial keys, the so-called endorsement keys. These form the basis for creating additional keys and never leave the TPM. Even the owner of an IT system can not see or change these keys.

For example, in Windows Vista or Windows Server 2008 or later clients, the computer's TPM is used for Bitlocker disk encryption. For clients as of Windows 8, the TPM of the computer is activated in the delivery state.

With activated TPM, the operating system assumes the supremacy over all safety functions of the IT system on the basis of the built-in chip during initialization. By incorporating a hardware chip, there is a fundamental risk that operating system vulnerabilities may also affect the functions of the TPM or data stored therein. In such a case, the IT system could become permanently unusable. Due to the inadequate power of the owner or the institution via their own keys, access to data protected by this system can be permanently prevented in such a case.

In many configurations, the operating system may turn on a previously disabled TPM itself. This can also be done without the owner or administrator noticing this.

The TPM can also be used by manufacturers to implement copy protection mechanisms. Thus, the manufacturers of operating systems and application software can verify the identity of a terminal device and make the running of software, but also the readability of cryptographically secured data, of keys in the TPM dependent.

In this case, there is the risk for the user that software is subsequently rendered unusable by the manufacturer, or that software used on a PC with activated TPM can no longer be used at a certain point in time. An encryption of data which can not be controlled by the applying institutions can ensure that the data is recovered without the cooperation of the software manufacturer, eg. B.with methods of reverse engineering, is no longer possible. In this way kannz. For example, a bankruptcy of the software manufacturer may lead to data loss at all sites using the appropriate software. The migration to alternative software products is also made more difficult in such scenarios (lock-in effect).



## Examples 
* A defect on the motherboard or in the TPM chip prevents the system from starting or accessing encrypted data.
* If Bitlocker is configured with PIN input, an affected IT system will no longer boot if the user forgot the PIN and there is no recovery key.
* The validity of a software license is withdrawn by the manufacturer. As a result, the program used can no longer be executed.
* After a manufacturer's bankruptcy, migrating application data to an alternate solution is no longer possible because the application data is protected with a TPM key under the manufacturer's control.
* Software or OS vendors use TPM features to limit the collaboration of their solutions with free alternatives.




