#G 2.146 Loss of working capacity of Vista clients due to missing reactivation before SP1
For a workable Windows Vista client, the Windows Vista operating system must be installed and a Windows Vista license must be enabled. Licenses for Windows Vista Enterprise can only be obtained under a volume licensing agreement. The first requirement for enabling Windows Vista licenses from a volume licensing agreement with this version of the operating system is also known as Windows Vista Volume Activation 2.0 (as of Fall 2007). Windows Vista Volume Activation 2.0 distinguishes the activation forms:

* MAK Proxy Activation (Multi Activation Key, Multiple Activation Key),
* MAK-independent activation and
* KMS activation (Key Management Server, key management server).


Within these forms of activation there are further differences, which are supported by the supported communication channels for the exchange of license information with Microsoft. It supports internet and telephone.

There are certain requirements associated with activating a Windows Vista license. If this is violated, the Windows Vista client automatically falls into the so-called RFM (Reduced Functionality Mode). In the RFM, the Vista client is not operational until a Windows Vista license for the Vista client has been successfully activated. With the release of the Windows Vista Service Pack SP1, the manufacturer Microsoft has withdrawn the RFM. Instead of the RFM, Windows Vista now displays warning messages.

The following default settings with exactly known criteria let a Windows Vista client fall into the RFM:

* no activation within grace period of 30 days after installing Windows Vista.
* no re-activation within 210 days after the last activation in case of KMS activation.


The following default settings with criteria that are only vaguely known allow a Windows Vista client to also fall into the RFM:

* no reactivation within 30 days of significant hardware modifications, such as disk replacement in the case of KMS activation. Further public details on significant hardware changes can be found in the September 2007 Microsoft Technical Market Bulletin Product Activation for Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008.
* Manipulation of the activation process or license files, details are not known.
* Compromised product key. The term Product Key can refer to the MAK key and the KMS key. Compromised can be lost, stolen, misused, illegally copied, defective due to manufacturing defects or no longer valid because beta or test keys mean. Details are not known.


The vague criteria leave a scope for so-called false positives. In the context of activation, false positivity means that a Vista client is mistakenly placed in the RFM. This may, for example, be based on the false assumption that a product key is compromised or manipulated for licensing relevant files.

The vague criteria also support possible control loss in the maintenance of Vista clients because it does not know which hardware modifications require reactivation. If there is no timely valid license information for a reactivation, then the RFM threatens.

There is a risk that the manufacturer-side, restrictive design of the Windows Vista Volume Activation can also lead to the loss of the working capacity of the Vista Clients through no fault of the administrator. Then Vista clients and the applications running on them can not be used.

Losing the work capacity of a Vista client can result in the loss of the workload of an application that is indispensable for completing a task in a specialized process or business process.

Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



