#G 2.160 Missing or insufficient logging
With the help of log data, it can be determined, for example, whether security specifications have been violated or whether attempted attacks have been made. In addition, the log information can be used for error analysis in case of damage and for cause determination or integrity check.

In an information network, there are often IT systems or applications in which logging has not been activated by default. Such systems and applications must be previously configured accordingly. Under certain circumstances, logging with systems and applications is not possible. An insufficient planning concept can also be a reason for missing logging.

Even if logging is used on individual systems, information and lessons learned can be lost because they are not brought together in one central location. In information networks without central logging, it is difficult to ensure that the relevant log information of all IT systems is obtained and evaluated.

If users of IT systems and applications are able to independently disable logging, this can also lead to problems. For example, a user could violate policies without any consequences for them. If users can modify or delete existing log files, there is a risk that security breaches will not be detected.



## Examples 
* An unauthorized user attempts to guess passwords for other users' Web mail accounts. Since the password usually also other services can be used (single sign-on), this is particularly interesting for the attacker. Lack of logging on the mail server does not detect this attack. The attacker has the opportunity to discover users' passwords unnoticed by brute-force methods.




