#G 2.145 Inadequate backup of Trivial Database files under Samba
To restore the configuration of a Samba server without loss, depending on the function of the Samba server, the backup of different system components is necessary. As a rule, no special aspects need to be taken into account for a consistent backup of these system components.

An exception is the Trivial Database (TDB) files that Samba uses to store various pieces of information. The contents of these databases are often stored by the Samba service in the main memory (cached). Therefore, the contents on the hard disk are not always up-to-date and the size and timestamps of the TDB files are often unchanged for a long time. If these peculiarities are not taken into account when creating a backup during the runtime of the Samba service, the loss of data threatens.



## Examples 
* During a file backup, the winbindd_idmap.tdb file was not backed up correctly. In this file, Windows users are assigned Unix user IDs. After restoring this file, ten of the last mappings created by Winbind are missing. It is no longer possible to determine what the missing usernames to the Unix user IDs are 1005621-105630. Existing files with these user IDs can no longer be assigned to an owner.
* On a Samba server in an information network, tdbsam is used to manage account information. The passwords are stored here in the file passdb.tdb. A backup was not performed correctly because the administrator used the standard Unix program cp while the Samba server was running. After restoring this file, two are missing, the last user created by the administrator.




