#G 2.102 Insufficient awareness of information security
Information security awareness activities must be based on the business processes and IT environment of each institution in order to address the right areas as well. As a result, a variety of topics may need to be addressed. For this the training activities have to be carefully planned and organized. Experience shows that it is not enough just to order the implementation of certain awareness-raising measures. The following pitfalls often make sustainable awareness more difficult:

* There is a lack of support from the various levels of management, which may mean that employees from different areas for information security training are not exempted, and participation is not taken seriously by either the staff or the supervisor, as well Supervisors do not communicate the importance of information security for organizational success or even dismiss information security as insignificant.
* The planning of awareness-raising activities is poor.
* The goal of the awareness program is not or not clearly defined.
* There is no success control. However, when success stories and general feedback on awareness-raising activities are missing, management quickly withdraws support or prioritizes such projects.
* Only individual actions and information security training will be carried out. If these are not related to other security measures, they may do more harm than good. For example, employees may become confused or demotivated.
* There are too few financial or human resources to run information security campaigns. Frequently, expensive security components are purchased or security concepts are worked out with great effort, without the users being trained in their application or implementation. As a result, well thought-out security solutions can become meaningless.


Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



