#G 2.169 Missing or inadequate security of data processing on behalf of the processing of personal data
The assignment of data processing activities to the outside by way of order data processing is permissible on the condition that the client is responsible for the compliance with the data protection regulations. The contract must be awarded with special consideration to the technical and organizational suitability of the contractor. The order must be made in writing, whereby the data processing itself and the associated technical and organizational measures are to be described. These measures include, in particular, the guarantee of order control. The contractor remains bound by instructions in relation to the data processing.

These provisions also apply to the inspection and maintenance of technical equipment used for the automated processing of personal data (remote maintenance).



## Examples 
* A company wants to outsource the technical processing of payroll accounting as part of an application service to a service provider. The data processing takes place in such a way that employees of the service provider can also access the wage data in the course of administration and data backup. The contractual agreements only regulate the availability and restart of the payroll service. For unexplained reasons, payroll data from employees of the client comes into the public domain. They are used to denounce the employees' income. Competing companies try to hire employees with better offers and thereby harm their competitors. Affected employees complain to the responsible supervisory authority.
* In the course of checking the data processing of the client, the supervisory authority determines missing provisions of the order data processing, as essential contractual agreements for ensuring the data protection regulations (here in particular related to the implementation of the security objectives of the data protection law, check the implementation in the Service providers and agreements in case of poor implementation) are missing. The supervisory authority must object to this and urges that the funds be stopped at short notice.




