#G 2.133 Poorly defined responsibilities for patch and change management
Patch management and change management should also set clear responsibilities. If situations arise in which the responsibilities are not or are incorrectly regulated, significant disadvantages can arise. For example, unregulated responsibilities could result in serious security gaps not being closed promptly as no-one wants to be responsible for an emergency patch.

Poorly defined, overlapping or unresolved responsibilities in patch and change management slow down the categorization of the Requests for Change and prioritization, and thus the desired distribution of patches and changes ( rollout). Even premature release of a change or a patch, without test run and consideration of all (technical) aspects, can have a serious impact on safety.

In extreme cases, poorly defined responsibilities can affect the entire institution completely or to a large extent. Operational disruptions affect availability, failure to distribute security-related patches on confidentiality.



## Examples 
* In a company, there are no contact persons for the patch and change management in the specialist departments. Therefore, there are always delays in setting priorities for change requirements. In addition, it is difficult to estimate the impact of changes on business processes. When security holes became known in software, time-critical emergency patches could not be brought in time, so they served unnoticed as a gateway for a Trojan horse.
* In one agency, the change of an IT system was made without prior contact with the department. The department could neither adjust nor agree to the change. In addition, some of the IT systems of the user failed to function without the important tasks being performed.




