#G 2.148 Incorrect planning of virtualization
The introduction of virtualization servers into a data center means that a new class of IT systems has to be put into operation. A virtualization server is usually not just a server that enables the operation of virtual IT systems. Rather, he integrates the virtual IT systems in the data center and controls their connection to other infrastructure elements such. B.Networks and storage networks. From the point of view of virtual IT systems, the virtualization server is therefore part of the data center infrastructure.

In a classic IT infrastructure, the (physical) IT systems are often managed in a work-sharing process. The individual structural elements of the IT infrastructure are operated by administrators who have specialized and concentrated on the IT systems they manage. In a virtualized IT infrastructure, however, individual structural elements of the previously separate infrastructure are combined in one virtualization server. As a result, some of the operational responsibility for these data center resources may shift from the specialized administrators to the administrators of the virtualization servers.

The introduction of virtualization also changes the view of an information network as a whole. If infrastructure components and a large number of (virtual) servers and (virtual) workstations are mapped within a virtualization server, the differences between a physical and a logical information network can not be perceived. Thus, the logical structure is no longer clearly visible.



## Examples 
* the responsibilities for different areas such as. Applications, operating systems and network components are not clearly defined,
* the responsibilities for different areas  circle or
* an appropriate rights structure to separate administrative access options for the different areas does not exist.




