#G 2.72 Insufficient migration of archive systems
Archived data should typically remain stored for a very long time. During this period, the underlying technical system components, storage media and data formats may become physically or technologically aging and thus unusable. In addition, there may be problems with the compatibility of the data formats used over time.

If there is no reaction to the aging of the existing system, it can be expected in the long term that

* archived raw data are no longer physically readable by the archive media,
* archived data is changed by physical errors to archive system and media,
* Spare parts for hardware components are no longer available,
* Add-ons for software components are no longer available,
* data formats no longer comply with the integrity requirements,
* electronic signatures become useless,
* encrypted data becomes readable to unauthorized persons.


Even if system components are exchanged in good time or the data is copied, still problems can arise due to the use of cryptographic methods. For example, vulnerabilities could occur in integrity-preserving processes because encryption and signature algorithms may lose their protective effect over time and with increasing computational power (see also G 2.79 Insufficient renewal of digital signatures during archiving).

Examples:

* Long-term physical effects (material wear, deformation, scratching of media surfaces, plasticizers) can damage data media. Depending on the intended use of the data carrier concerned as a system or archive medium, the operation of the archive system may be disrupted or the data stored on the archive media may be lost.
* The manufacturer of an archive system provided a debug field in the context data for documents. In the pilot phase of the archive system, documents from the normal business were archived for test purposes, with the test status recorded in the debug information. At the time of the transition to the operational phase, the test documents were not deleted because they were archived on WORM data carriers, but the documents marked with the relevant debug information were no longer displayed. The successor system was supplied by another manufacturer that presented debug information in a different way. During the subsequent migration of the archive data to the new archive system, however, the old debug field was not evaluated by mistake. The old test documents were still in the archive after the migration of the data, but suddenly appeared as supposedly authentic documents in a later search.
* Electronic signature methods could be compromised by trying the signature keys or by mathematical methods. If this occurs within the archiving period, it is possible to reverse electronic signatures.


Status: as of 2005



