#G 2.26 Missing or insufficient testing and approval procedure
If new hardware or software is not or insufficiently tested and released without installation instructions, it may happen that errors in the hardware or software are not recognized or that the installation parameters that are necessarily observed are not recognized or not observed. These hardware, software, or installation errors resulting from a lack of or inadequate software testing and clearance procedures pose a significant threat to the ITE operation.

Confidence in trouble-free installation of new hard- ware software often overlooks the potential for damage to the effort required by an orderly test and release process. Programs or IT systems are under-tested and misplaced into a production environment. The errors consequently have a disruptive effect on the operation that was trouble-free up to this point.

Examples of such damage are shown below:

* Programs or program updates do not make sense because more resources (eg, main memory, processor capacity) are needed than expected for an acceptable processing speed. If this is not detected in the test, this can lead to significant false or follow-on investments. Not infrequently, decisions against further investment led to IT systems or applications being purchased and paid, but never used.


* Introduced workflows are significantly hindered after installing new software. The utility intended to install the program does not materialize much later, as employees were not trained in advance or informed about the new features of the program.
* By importing an update of a standard DBMS software that is subject to errors, the database is no longer available or data loss occurs.
* Some software products install Microsoft SQL Server Express (SSE) as a database without the user noticing. This is an expression of the Microsoft SQL Server with the typical dangers of a database system. Often, the users of the product, such as the administrators who install the product, are not adequately informed about these hazards and try to take security-related measures. Thus, in connection with SSE, a user account is often created in the database for the administrator, which in the basic installation does not have any password protection. In this way, attackers can gain full access to the data and possibly even to the operating system.
* In one bank, the operating systems of many network components have been updated. Thereafter, the new version of a packet filter blocked the communication port of a rarely used but hugely important feature of the critical database-based trading system. As a result, the bank's customers were unable to access the application and use important services. By recourse claims, the bank suffered financial damage.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



