#G 2.68 Missing or inadequate planning of Active Directory
The global structure of Active Directory, that is, its organization into domains, has a profound impact on the security of resources managed in Active Directory. Problematic aspects arise here especially if different security requirements exist for the different domains or domains belong to different organizational areas.

In the case of missing or inadequate planning, for example, the following cross-domain dangers may arise:

* All domains in an Active Directory must use the same schema. If you also want to install software in a domain that requires a schema change, all other domains must support this change. Incompatible schema changes by different software products can then lead to software not being able to install or run incorrectly.


* Certain user data from the Active Directory (Global Catalog) are available in every domain. In this case, the requirements of data protection could be violated if the nature and depth of detail of this information were not sufficiently coordinated in advance.


* Administrators of the Forest Root Domain have extensive powers in other domains as well. If the period is too long until an administrator account is automatically locked, the administrator rights can be exploited by third parties.
* If a domain is spread across multiple locations that are poorly networked, it may take too long for account lockout to take effect on all sites. As a result, a user whose account has been suspended may still be able to log in to the system at other locations.


Even within a domain, the structure of the Active Directory must be carefully planned, otherwise the following dangers arise:

* When computers and user accounts are placed in the default containers Computers and Users below the domain, Group Policy configuration is not possible according to different types of user accounts or different types of computers. For example, a group policy enforced restriction of privileges on an affected computer type might be bypassed.
* If organizational units (OUs) are deeply nested, the structure of the domains can become unmanageable, making the Active Directory more susceptible to misconfiguration. In addition, the performance of the Active Directory service decreases with nesting depth if OUs are too deep, ie. H. Be nested over more than 4 levels.


Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



