#G 2.158 M ngel in the development and expansion of web applications and web services
If a web application or a web service with missing or inadequate specifications and standards is developed or extended, this can lead to errors, quality losses or an incompletely implemented functionality. Mistakes made in the early stages of development of the application are often discovered only at an advanced stage of development. To remedy these errors later, often costly changes must be made. As a result, the development costs can increase significantly. In the case of basic architectural errors, the web application or web service may need to be completely redeveloped.

In addition, if there are no requirements for the implementation of security mechanisms, the required protection requirements (for example, high protection requirements with respect to availability) of the data to be processed may not be met.

The following is an example of the impact of missing presets in the development and enhancement of web applications and web services.

* Due to the lack of a software development lifecycle, not all development phases are structured so that security aspects are not taken into account at all or only at a later stage of development. As a result, the quality of the security functions decreases, whereby the desired level of security is not achieved or the development costs rise due to necessary rework.


* Missing coding guidelines lead to an inconsistent structure and different expressions of programming styles and security mechanisms. The incorporation into the program code when expanding or maintaining the web application or the web service is made more difficult. As a result, subsequent changes and expansions can only be implemented with great effort and, with increasing complexity, also more error-prone.


* The incorrect specification of (safety-relevant) test cases and the incomplete selection of test data do not cover all conceivable cases of application, so that errors remain undetected. If, for example, the component of a web application or a web service for filtering input data is checked based on insufficient test cases and test data, then incompletely implemented filter mechanisms are not recognized.


* If functional and legal requirements for accessibility are not met, the web application will only be usable by people with disabilities.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



