#G 2.124 Incorrect or inadequate planning of partitioning and replication in the directory service
A key aspect in planning the use of a directory service is partitioning and replication. Partitioning is a division of the directory data of a directory service into individual subareas (partitions). Such a partitioning can not be arbitrary, but must correspond to certain rules, which result from the logic of the hierarchical tree structure.

The replication of partitions of the directory service serves primarily to increase the availability and load distribution of the directory system. Furthermore, the reliability is improved by the redundancy in the data storage. Therefore, planning is also of crucial importance, because subsequent changes to the partition and replication settings are possible, but may incur inconsistencies.

Changes to the directory service take a certain amount of time, due to the distribution to several systems, until all new settings have been recorded everywhere. This may result in a time window within which the directory service is inconsistent. Especially when defining the authentication data or the access rights to directory service objects, such inconsistencies can be a problem.

The partitioning definitions of the directory service can have a direct impact on the replication activities of the entire system. If the planning is inad quat, then very extensive replication rings are generated here, for example, if the tree structure is too flat. If, for example, a replication ring becomes very large, there is a certain risk that at least one ring server will be temporarily unavailable, causing error and status messages on each additional directory service server of the replication ring. Such error and status messages can lead to an increased administration effort, which can extend over large parts of the directory tree.

Further, improper or inadequate planning of directory service replication and replication may also result in data loss, inconsistencies in data management, poor directory service availability, and overall poor system performance, as well as system failures.

Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



