#G 2.210 Insufficiently secure use of development environments
If the development environment is not adequately secured, it can not be guaranteed that the software produced will be implemented safely, as it may be tampered with and not subsequently detected.

If the development environment is not operated with limited access, the software will be developed uncontrollably. If it is not known which users can and could access the development environment at what time, the software may be manipulated anonymously. If the manipulated parts of the software are discovered, it can not be reconstructed due to the lack of access restrictions which employee has manipulated.

If the source code is missing or inadequate, it is not possible to restore previous and already working versions of the software.

If source codes are insufficiently secured against accidentally or intentionally misusing, there is a risk that parts of a project, or even the entire project, will be damaged and the work already done will be lost. This delays the project process and in the worst case leads to the failure of the project.



## Examples 
* A developer wants to spontaneously optimize a software and thereby changes essential core components of the complex project. The optimization does not achieve the desired results and the developer decides to restore the original version. After the source code has been restored, it finds that the now existing version does not correspond to the previously current version and no further backup is available.
* In 2009, a virus was discovered that targeted the development environment Delphi. Programs created with the infected Delphi development environment were automatically maliciously tagged.




