#G 2.116 Data loss when copying or moving data as of Windows Server 2003
Moving and copying objects or whole subbands from or into directories involves several partially hidden operations that can render the moving data objects and directory structures unusable. The threat is less likely to be individual users than administrators, as they sometimes have to move large or system-critical data.

The classic danger often encountered in migration scenarios is moving filesystem objects across media or system boundaries. Before removing the data from its source, there is no control over that data at the destination. The data affected by the move may be lost.

Less obvious is the behavior of objects' meta-information, such as access permissions or other attributes that apply to multiple objects at the same time. Often, complex authorization structures with automatic inheritance mechanisms in the directory structure are active, acting differently at source and destination. For example, in Microsoft Windows, moving a file causes the existing file permissions to be dragged to the destination, while copying restores file permissions to the destination's specifications. The prerequisite is always that authorizations and other meta-information at the destination can be interpreted correctly at all. Otherwise, grown authorization structures could be lost in one fell swoop.

The effect of copy and move mechanisms may vary between components, such as the file system, component services, Internet Information Services (IIS), and Active Directory in Windows Server 2003. Ignorance of the mechanisms behind the operating concepts and lack of care can quickly lead to data loss and misconfiguration of the system.

Unexpected effects of copying and moving are not least attributable to underlying system components used for storing and creating objects and directories. Examples from Windows Server 2003 include Distributed File System (DFS), Active Directory, or the Encrypting File System (EFS). For example, the copy and move processes in EFS include caching and cryptography steps, resort to certificate services, and store public keys as meta-information. Unpaid copying and moving of files and directory trees can quickly lead to the data becoming unavailable or incomplete, or their confidentiality is no longer guaranteed.

Specifically, the NTFS file system can experience unexpected effects through Alternate Data Streams (ADS) in files. ADS is an invisible area within a file where Windows Server 2003 can store additional information such as zone information or thumbnails.

The command line and Windows Explorer have different behavior when dealing with ADS. Shifting and copying operations can cause ADS to be altered accidentally or abusive, lost or accidentally filled with content. If there is insufficient protection through appropriate file permissions, ADS can become very dangerous attack points.



