#G 2.180 Incorrect provisioning and deprovisioning of cloud services
Cloud management ensures the correct and efficient configuration of the cloud infrastructure and services while operating cloud services. An important element here is the regulated orchestration, ie the provisioning and de-provisioning of cloud resources (memory, CPU, storage, virtual Netzeusw.) And their configuration (setting up of the virtual machines, etc.). The information for this is stored in cloud service profiles.

Dangers in the provisioning and de-provisioning of cloud services are due to errors in planning and design. Inadequate provisioning and deprovisioning occurs when the present features of cloud services deviate from the promised ones. Insufficient provisioning and deprovisioning translates into the wrong allocation of cloud resources and the wrong allocation of cloud service profiles.



## Examples 
* There is a threat to the operation of the cloud infrastructure when planning for the required resources for cloud service profiles is insufficient. This can be attributed to weaknesses in requirements management. Incorrect or inadequate inclusion of cloud service requests may result in cloud services being improperly deployed and associated cloud resource provisioning may not work properly.
* Implementation of the provisioning process is not controlled in the cloud resource delivery components (called cloud element managers or shorter element managers). The provisioning is thus not sufficiently tested.
* Incorrect prioritization of cloud resources results in congestion of the cloud infrastructure during rush hours. B.by monthly statements.
* A virtual system for a cloud service is provided with sufficient memory and CPU, but the external connection to the cloud users is not adequately dimensioned.




