#G 2.62 Unsuitable handling of security incidents
In practice, it can never be ruled out that security incidents occur. This also applies if a large number of security measures have been implemented. Failure to adequately respond to acute security incidents may result in serious damage or even catastrophes.

Examples of these are:

* Occur sporadically at first, then massively new computer viruses with malicious functions. If there is no timely response, entire organizational units may become unfit for work.
* Incredibly changed content can be found on a web server. If this is not followed up as an indication of possible hacker attacks, further attacks on the server may also lead to a great loss of image.
* The log files of a firewall contain pertinent entries. Failure to promptly investigate whether these are signs of a hacking attempt will allow attackers to pass the firewall unnoticed by a successful attack and invade the institution's internal network.
* Security gaps in the IT systems used are known. If this information is not obtained in time and necessary countermeasures are not promptly implemented, there is a risk that the vulnerabilities will be exploited by attackers.
* There are indications of manipulated company data. If this is not taken as an opportunity to investigate the manipulations, unrecognized manipulations can also result in serious consequential damage, such as faulty stock records, incorrect bookkeeping or uncontrolled outflow of funds.
* If the evidence of compromise of confidential company data is not followed up, further confidential data may be drained away.


These examples illustrate that security incidents have to be detected early and the responsible authorities must be notified quickly. A speedy reaction and a briefing of the potentially affected to harm reduction or prevention is extremely important here.

Failure to take appropriate action to handle security incidents can lead to wrong decisions in a hurry and under stress, which, among other things, can lead to:

* that press representatives receive false information,
* that affected systems or components are not adequately handled and switched off too soon or too late,
* that third parties can be harmed by their own systems,
* that no evasion or recovery measures are provided, such. B. Exchange of compromised components or recovery of data.


Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



