#G 2.161 Confidentiality and integrity loss of log data
Some IT systems generate log information such as user name, IP address, e-mail address, and computer name that can be assigned to specific people. Such information can be heard and manipulated if it is transmitted unsecured and not encrypted. This danger exists especially if central logging is used. Such information improves the possibilities of attack. For example, if an attacker knows the username, he or she may try to guess their passwords or find out about their password attacks (see also G5.18 Systematic Passwords Testing).

The integrity of the log information can also be impaired by unsecured and unencrypted transmission as well as by misconduct by administrators. For example, if an administrator modifies or deletes the log data to cover up a configuration error, the information may not be processed further. In addition, transmission errors during transmission to a central logging server may result in a loss of integrity of log data. Under certain circumstances, data may also be misused in order to pass on false information.



## Examples 
* Through a man-in-the-middle attack, the attacker can read the transmitted and non-encrypted log data. Thus, it receives concrete information about the information network, such as the IP addresses of the individual IT systems. The attacker now has the opportunity to fake IP addresses and spend money on another IT system (IP spoofing). In some information networks, it is common for internal systems to trust each other so that a user can log in without username and password. The attacker can now attack the target machine using the fake IP address without authenticating.
* When the protocol messages are transmitted from the file server to the central logging server, physical errors in the transmission channel result in transmission errors. For this reason, administrators do not notice that the file server has been down again and again in the last few hours.




