#G 2.17 Defective marking of the data carrier
If data carriers are marked insufficiently, it is often not clear after a short time, who the data medium belongs to, what information is stored on it or what purpose it serves. In the case of data carrier exchange, without proper identification of the exchanged data carriers, it is often not even possible for the recipient to determine who sent the data medium or whether access restrictions should be observed. If more than one volume is received by the same sender, the order can be confused if the label is missing.



## Examples 
* Freebies are frequently sent to the BSI requesting the delivery of brochures or CDs. Again and again it happens that neither in the cover letter nor on the back cover an address is noted.
* The sender sends to the recipient a DVD with information that places great emphasis on their integrity. The next day, the sender determines that the data was incorrect, sends a corrected version, and sends it to the recipient by telephone. By mail, the second DVD now overtakes the first one, so that the recipient thinks, due to poor labeling, that the first DVD received contains the wrong data.
* Before a software change, important application data for data backup was burned on CD-ROMs. Since this was planned as a short-term action, the CD-ROMs were not properly labeled, only numbered. Although confidential customer data was stored on it, the CD-ROMs remained open in a office after successful installation. When this became apparent after a few weeks, already half the CD-ROMs were missing.




