#G 2.1 Missing or inadequate regulations
The importance of cross-organizational regulations and specifications for the goal of information security increases with the extent of information processing, but also with the need for protection of the information to be processed.

From the question of responsibilities to the distribution of control tasks, the range of regulations can be very extensive. The effects of missing or inadequate regulations are described as examples in the other dangers of the catalog of dangers G2.

In many cases, changes in technical, organizational or personal nature, which have a significant impact on information security, do not adjust existing regulations. Outdated regulations can stand in the way of trouble-free operation. Problems can also arise because regulations are formulated in a way that is incomprehensible or incoherent and thus misunderstood.

The following examples show that regulatory deficits can lead to damage:

* Due to a faulty resource management, the timely workflow in a data center can be severely impaired by a failure to print the printer paper.
* In addition to the procurement of manual fire extinguishers, their regular maintenance must also be regulated in order to ensure that they are also functional in case of fire.
* When a water damage is found that this also affects the underlying server room. However, inadequate key management does not immediately resolve the water damage in the server room, because no one knows where the server room key is. This significantly increases the damage.


Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



