#G 3.117 Incorrect automation in cloud management
To capitalize on the potential benefits of cloud computing, automation of routine tasks and deployment of cloud resources is required. Automation of processes also brings with it a series of challenges.

Automation is flawed when cloud service replication fails to adequately deploy the cloud resources it needs (virtual machine, memory, CPU, disk space, etc.) to service the cloud to provide promised properties.

A faulty automation can also be justified by technical reasons. This is the case, for example, when automated provisioning and deprovisioning configurations are not implemented on the technical cloud components.

Incorrect automation can result in greater impact than individual manual configurations.

Incorrect automation is a great waste if the use and allocation of resources through automated processes is not limited by policies. If Cloud Priorities have not defined any prioritization and limits for the various cloud services, there may be resource bottlenecks or waste of resources.



## Examples 
* For a cloud application, 4 GB of storage would be provided per tenant. The cloud deployment automated deployment policy mistakenly sets a value of 400GB per tenant. Accordingly, in an automated deployment of this cloud application in a variety of clients soon the storage space can no longer be provided.
* Automated provisioning of cloud resources configures a management system for storage. However, this management system is not available and there is neither a conversion nor an error message.




