#G 3.61 Incorrect configuration of Outlook
Microsoft Outlook is an important part of the Microsoft Exchange system and is the name of the client component. The correct configuration of the client is important for the overall security of the system.

The following aspects should be mentioned in particular:

* Selecting the communication protocol can cause special security issues. In particular, the MAPI interface is mentioned, which has spread in the past a number of computer viruses and heatwave.


* If a client computer is used by several users, a separate profile is created and saved for each user. This profile can be taken over by a colleague. As a result, the user account of a person may be taken over the system without authorization and the confidentiality of data may be impaired.


* Encryption and electronic signatures are used at e-mail level. B. based on S / MIME or PGP, the private key may be compromised if it is stored locally. Possible consequences are that the confidentiality of the data is impaired and rights are taken over by third parties without authorization.
* Encryption is used at the network level, eg. By using IPSec, SSL or TLS, this mechanism may become ineffective if the client is configured incorrectly.


* Incorrect configuration of the e-mail client Outlook can also lead to data loss and blockade of the client. Furthermore, it can lead to an overflow and thus to an overload of the Exchange server.


* If automatic execution of dangerous file formats is not suitably restricted in the Outlook Client, viruses and other malicious software can be introduced or distributed.


The appointment management and the task list are further components of the Exchange / Outlook system, which do not directly serve the processing of e-mail traffic, but the support of the workflow within an institution.

However, sometimes these areas contain sensitive and valuable information such as electronic messages. In the case of a misconfiguration of these subsystems, the following potential security problems thus exist:

* Loss of confidentiality due to unauthorized access,
* Loss of integrity of information through data manipulation (accidental or accidental),
* unauthorized assumption of the role or the identity of another user or
* Loss of data and information due to improper data management and lack of backup arrangements.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



