#G 3.100 Improper use of snapshots of virtual IT systems
Snapshots can freeze the state of a virtual machine at any point in time. It does not matter whether or not the system is running when the snapshot is taken. In this way, it is possible to arrive at the snapshot preserved state of the virtual IT system without a complex process. The snapshot can also be transferred to another virtualization server or used as a backup.

If the virtual machine continues to operate after a snapshot has been taken and the preserved state is subsequently loaded, all changes made since then to the guest system will be lost. This can lead to data loss in a careless procedure and is usually undesirable in the case of productive systems. Also, changes to the operating system, services and applications of the virtual IT system can be reset. Inadequate file permissions, vulnerabilities and vulnerabilities or even deleted user accounts become active again in this way.

Virtual servers that have open files or database sessions may experience inconsistent data. For example, when information is written by a client to the virtualized server while the snapshot is being taken. The file content to be saved is then not completely contained in the snapshot. If the frozen state of the virtual machine is now used again, there is a high probability of defective files or databases that are disturbed in their integrity.

Distributed systems such as database clusters or Active Directory domain controllers typically use a replication mechanism to ensure that their data is synchronized. This can cause significant problems if they are reset to a snapshot. In such a case, inconsistencies may occur in the databases that can not be resolved by the replication mechanism.

If there is not enough storage space for large or multiple snapshots, storage space bottlenecks can occur and no further information can be stored.



