#G 3.89 Incorrect configuration of LDAP access to directory services
LDAP is particularly suitable as a protocol for accessing directory services, if the accesses by other applications, such. B.Internet or intranet applications occur. However, if the LDAP access is configured incorrectly, you may encounter the following issues:

* Incorrect Assignment of Access Rights and Unauthorized Access to the Directory Service When directory services from different vendors are used, LDAP settings may experience problems based on extensions to a particular directory service, such as Active Directory or Novell eDirectory. In addition, users may be assigned incorrect permissions because of the incompatible LDAP syntax. Among other things, this may mean that users may unintentionally access areas for which they should not actually have any rights.
* Transmission of user passwords in plain text and extraction of unencrypted information Since LDAP is a purely text-based protocol, all information, including user passwords, is transmitted in plain text and could be spied out. Therefore, LDAP should be additionally secured, for example by SSL encryption. However, the SSL configuration also introduces failures that can lead to a lowering of the security level.
* LDAP access error, especially for network-based applications. However, logon attempts may fail sporadically even though the correct authentication information is used. This can be caused, for example, by different LDAP configurations on the individual directory service components.
* Impairing Directory Service with LDAP Encryption SettingsDue to misconfiguration, incorrect procedures, and incorrect activation order when making LDAP signing and encryption settings, it can severely affect availability for large parts of the directory service become. For larger environments, relocating the directory service to a working state can be very costly, since in such a situation many network-based management and control functions are disrupted. The effects of these inconsistent settings may not be noticeable until after a certain period of time.
* Insufficient productivity of the entire system due to different LDAP versionsIf the clients support different LDAP versions, different configuration options may exist. For example, if clients use an older version of LDAP, new command strings may not be supported or there may be flaws in the features, and so on. Also, client support for the various LDAP versions related configuration options can lead to errors that affect the safety of the operation.
* Not or insufficiently restricted search filtersWhen a directory service is used via LDAP as a public address or certificate server, search requests made via the Internet are answered by the directory service. Thus, after entering an e-mail address, the corresponding certificate for possible encryption is transmitted. If the search and return criteria are not restricted, internal information can be extracted via these requests. For example, if a company allows placeholders (so-called wildcards) during a search and does not restrict the output for the response, the entire directory can be read out with a query. A search for the certificate at the address * @ * would then provide as output a complete list of all e-mail addresses of employees of the institution. This list can be used for sending spam or preparing for targeted attacks (see G 5.42 Social Engineering).


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



