#G 3.38 Configuration and operating errors
Configuration errors are caused by incorrect or incomplete setting of parameters and options with which a program is started. Incorrectly set permissions for files fall into this group. In the case of operating errors, not individual settings are wrong, but the IT systems or IT applications are treated incorrectly. An example of this is the launch of programs that are not necessary for the purpose of the computer, but can be abused by an attacker.

Examples of current configuration or operation errors include storing passwords on a PC running unauthorized software from the Internet, or loading and running damaged ActiveX controls. These programs, which, among other things, have the task of making websites more attractive through dynamic content, are executed with the same rights that the user has. You can delete, change or send any data.

Many programs designed to allow information to be freely distributed in an open environment can, if misconfigured, provide data for abuse to potential attackers. Thus, for example, the finger service can inform about how long a user is already sitting on the computer. But browsers also submit a set of information to the web server each time a file is queried (for example, the version of the browser and the operating system used, the name and Internet address of the PC). In this context, the cookies should also be mentioned. These are files in which web server operators store data about the user on their computer. These data can be retrieved the next time the server visits and used by the server operator for an analysis of web pages previously visited by the user on the server.

The use of a Domain Name System is another source of danger. On the one hand, an incorrectly configured DNS server allows many information to be queried over a local area network. On the other hand, by taking over this server an attacker has the possibility to send IP addresses, so that any traffic can be controlled by him.

A major threat also comes from the automatically executable content (executable content) in e-mails or HTML pages. This is known under the keyword content security problem. Files retrieved from the Internet may contain code that is already executed when the user views and returns no questions. This is z. This is the case for macros in Office files and has been exploited to create so-called macro viruses. Even programming languages ??and interfaces such as ActiveX, Javascript or Java, which have been developed for applications on the Internet, have a harmful potential if the control functions are incorrectly implemented.

The availability of the RACF security system is central to OS / OS systems for the availability of the entire system. Improper use of z / OS utilities in the RACF database backup or incorrect operation of the RACF commands can restrict this.

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



