#G 3.82 Incorrect configuration of the VoIP middleware
A VoIP-based telephone system can be similarly affected by misconfiguration as a circuit-switched telephone solution. This ranges from incorrect assignments of telephone users to telephone numbers to a loss of availability of the telephone infrastructure. Even more uncritical errors, such as a misspelled name in the phone book, of course, not be ruled out.

Furthermore, privileges can be assigned or withdrawn via the telephone system to certain users when making a telephone call. Examples are telephone calls abroad or the call of paid service numbers. An incorrect setting can make it possible to misuse this if, for example, a telephone that is generally accessible receives foreign authorization.

When using VoIP, several systems are usually integrated. If SIP is used as the initialization protocol, systems such as registrars, SIP proxy servers and location servers are usually required for the communication. In the case of changes, all systems must be adapted, which may result in configuration errors. Even though all services are located on one computer system, they often have to be individually configured. If a change is not made correctly on one system only, the entire telephone infrastructure may not be able to be used.

In the case of VoIP, a traditional answering machine is generally not used, but a voice mail is sent in the event of the absence or unavailability of the user. This is often an e-mail to which a voice message is attached as an audio file. If a typographical error in the email address occurs during the configuration, the actual recipient will not receive the received messages. It may even happen that they are instead delivered to a wrong recipient.

In addition to the actual VoIP switching systems, the routers and switches that operate on deeper network layers must also be configured. In order to avoid delays in switching, many devices can be set to preferentially forward VoIP messages. Configuration errors can in the worst case lead to a complete failure of the network.

Status: as of 2006



