#G 3.3 Non-observance of safety measures
Due to negligence and lack of controls, it often happens that people do not or not fully carry out the security measures recommended or ordered to them. It may cause harm that would otherwise be prevented or at least reduced. Depending on the function of the person and the importance of the disregarded measure, even serious damage can occur. In many cases, safety measures are ignored because of a lack of security awareness. A typical indication is that recurrent error messages are ignored after a certain time.

* A locked desk does not provide sufficient protection against unauthorized access when storing documents, DVDs, USB sticks or other information sources, if the key is kept in the same office, eg. B. on the cabinet or under the keyboard.
* Although the damage-reducing nature of data backups is well-known, there are always failures when data is accidentally deleted and recovery is impossible due to a lack of backup. This is particularly evident in the demBS reported damage, z. Due to malware.
* Access to a data center should only be provided by means of an access control system (eg authentication via chip card reader, PIN entry or biometric procedures). However, the escape door, although it may only be opened in an emergency, is used as an additional entrance and exit without any special security devices.
* In a z / OS system, batch jobs ran daily for RACF database backups. The correct execution of these procedures should be checked daily by the responsible administrators. However, since the backups were carried out without problems over several months, no one controlled the process anymore. Only after the production system's RACF databases failed and the backups were to be restored did it detect that the batch jobs had not been running for several days. This meant that no current backups were available and the changes of the last days had to be added by hand. In addition to a considerable additional administrative effort, this resulted in an uncertainty factor, since not all definitions could be reliably reconstructed.
* In an institution it is forbidden to connect external USB devices to the IT infrastructure of the institution. An employee finds currently no official USB stick and connects instead his Smartphone with the PC. However, this mobile IT was infected with malicious software, resulting in unauthorized data leakage.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



