#G 3.42 Insecure configuration of VPN clients for remote access
The security of a Virtual Private Network (VPN) depends on both the secure configuration of the VPN servers and the VPN clients, as well as the correct use of the security mechanisms offered.

If the configuration of the server is still under the complete control of an administrator, the clients are often deployed outside the company's administration, especially in the case of remote access VPNs. Thus, the client can only be loosely incorporated into administrative processes. In particular, when using mobile VPN clients, users can also be equipped with certain administrative rights to resolve problems with VPN access by changing VPN configuration parameters themselves or under telephone guidance.

In general, the limited control options of the system administration result in the danger that VPN clients are configured insecure. Examples of this are:

* It is problematic if users install unauthorized software on the VPN client as it may have security gaps or introduce computer viruses or Trojan horses.
* The existing security mechanisms for the REMOTE access are in many cases not set or incorrectly by the user.


In general, it is possible to configure a Virtual Private Network (VPN) (client and / or server) to use weak or no security mechanisms. The mechanisms used for data encryption, for example, when negotiating IPSecoderSSLdynamically negotiated between client and server. During the negotiation, the client offers the server a list of supported procedures, the so-called cipher suites, from which the server selects one. The list of usable methods can be changed by appropriate configuration. In most cases, the option no encryption is possible.

If unselected connection recording is not prevented during configuration, there is a risk that the data will not be protected during transmission. This applies in particular to VPN clients, where users have the option of adapting the configuration of the VPN to local conditions in the event of problems.



## Examples 
* An institution has stipulated that the protection of VPN communication should take place via IPSec. The VPN server is set to require but not force IPSec encryption. This allows the VPN clients to establish potentially unsecured connections. A VPN user does not find the encryption-related performance on his or her older laptop unacceptable. Therefore, it turns off IPSec encryption. The VPN connection will now be unlocked.




