#G 3.6 Danger due to cleaning or external personnel
It is not always easy to train your own employees adequately to deal with business-critical information and mitIT systems. In the case of strangers, it is generally not possible to assume that they will handle information and information technology that are accessible to them in accordance with the requirements of the institution visited, especially as they are rarely aware of it.

Visitors, cleaners, and contractors can endanger internal information, business processes, and IT systems in a variety of ways, ranging from improper handling of technical equipment, to attempting to play anIT systems, and so on Theft of documents or IT components.



## Examples 
* If they are unaccompanied, visitors may have access to documents, data carriers or devices that may damage or gain knowledge of valuable information.
* Cleaning personnel can inadvertently release a plug connection, water can get into equipment, documents can be laid or even removed with the waste.
* An external employee had stored on his laptop documents that were to be printed out before a meeting in a public agency. For this, these fast perUSB sticks were copied to a computer in the LANTERN authority. However, malware was also transferred.
* In a computer center painting work should be carried out in the machine rooms. The painter accidentally came to the central emergency stop switch of the power supply with the ladder and released it. The entire power supply derz / OS in this data center was immediately interrupted. Due to the power failure, several disks (DASD - Direct Access Storage Device) were not immediately available. The technician needed several hours to start production again.




