#G 3.114 Incorrect administration during logging
If logging servers are administrated incorrectly and thus security incidents are ignored or not discovered, the security of the entire information network can be impaired. As a result, configuration or operating errors may be considered. In some circumstances, such administrative errors may also result in a loss of confidentiality of sensitive data.

Configuration errors include incorrect or incomplete parameters and options. This can be too high a limit from which an alarm occurs or to tolerant settings of the filter. Such misconfigurations can trigger frequent false alarms, which make early warning more difficult.

Operator errors in central logging can occur if insufficient or no training is provided. This can cause administrators to misinterpret the analysis results of log data and thus overlook a security incident. Incorrect operation may also result in log data being accidentally deleted or changed. Another potential threat to overall security is based on modified security settings and extended logging system access rights. These could be exploited by unauthorized users to gain access to the monitored IT systems.



## Examples 
* In one institution, the limit values ??for the workload in the early warning system were set too low. For this reason, a false alarm is triggered even at low utilization of a server. Over time, the alarms are increasingly neglected and ultimately ignored. This leads to a high security risk, since now also real alarms, with which a server is really overloaded, are ignored. Because of the overload, a server will shut down for a long time and cause a lot of financial damage.
* An administrator unintentionally changes the time of a login event from 07:13 to 77:13 in one of the log files by typing an incorrect command in the text-only text editor. This log file will be required later to prove that an employee logged in to his computer at 07:13 am on April 14, 2009 at 07:13. Due to the invalid time, the entry in this log file can not be used. Since the event does not exist in any other log file, it is not possible to prove that the employee was at his desk that day.




