#G 3.51 Incorrect granting of access rights in Novell eDirectory
Since eDirectory contains a number of sensitive data of the system users and resources, and also has a close relationship to the underlying operating system, the granting of access rights to the eDirectory is particularly important.

Access rights to eDirectory objects are assigned via access control lists (ACLs). There are access rights to the eDirectory object itself as well as to individual attributes of an object.

At the object level, the following rights (privileges) must be assigned: Browse, Create, Delete, Rename and Supervisor. At attribute level, these are: Compare, Read, Add or Delete Self, Write, Supervisor, and Inheritance Control. Compare is treated as part of the read right, ie. If the read right is assigned, the right Compare exists automatically.

The access control lists themselves are attributes (properties) for the respective eDirectory objects. The access rights to eDirectory objects are inherited by default from father to child objects within the tree hierarchy. To prevent breakage of this inheritance mechanism by partitioning the eDirectory directory, an inherited ACL is appended to the root object of the partition. Inheritance can be influenced with the help of so-called masks or Inherited Rights Filter.

By default, attribute-level access is not routed along the directory hierarchy. However, this can be configured via the attribute right Inheritance Control. This also makes it possible to control the particularly critical self-rights.

The access rights are granted explicitly by means of so-called trustee instructions. The access rights (privileges) to the target object (destination) are entered directly into the ACL of the target object by other eDirectory objects (users, user groups, services, applications, servers, etc.).

Furthermore, access rights can be granted indirectly through so-called security equivalents. Example: Target object X receives (at least) the same access options as target object Y, ie. the trustees of object Y automatically become trustees of object X. This is also configured as the ACL entry of object X.

For a specific eDirectory access, the so-called effective rights are always calculated, ie. the end result of the configurations described above.

This variety of configuration options for eDirectory access rights entails the risk that inconsistent or incorrect access options will be assigned. If the access rights in eDirectory are assigned incorrectly, the security of the entire system is seriously endangered. This concerns the confidentiality and integrity of data as well as possible backdoors for far-reaching system attacks.

A particularly critical point is the allocation of administration rights. eDirectory enables the implementation of a role-based administration concept as well as the delegation of individual administration tasks by assigning appropriate access rights. If these rights are assigned incorrectly, the entire administration concept is called into question and, under certain circumstances, even the administration of the directory system may be blocked.

Status: as of 2005



