#G 3.77 Poor acceptance of information security
Various circumstances can mean that information security is not accepted in an institution or even in parts of an institution, and thus there is no insight into the need to implement security measures. This can be caused, for example, by

* the Beh-rden- or corporate culture (according to the motto: That has always been so !, We can trust our employees, nothing has to be locked away., What should happen here ?, These security measures only disturb the work processes.),
* lack of role models, if, for example, the superiors do not lead by example, or
* a different social environment or cultural background (other countries, other customs). Typical problems can be caused by the fact that certain user rights or the equipment with hardware or software are seen as a status symbol. Restrictions in these areas can meet with great resistance.




## Examples 
* In the military environment, supervisors often assume that the implementation of security measures can be ordered. However, experience shows that employees who are not aware of the purpose of security measures bypass them if they see them as a hindrance to their actual task.
* A command to use only secure passwords resulted in a military IT system implementing a password generator. This generated 16-digit random passwords, which were displayed once for 10 seconds on the screen. That time was enough to write down the passwords. Since it is difficult for many people to remember passwords of the form aN 3bGP? Tz1BuH89, these notes were not destroyed contrary to the instructions, but often stored near the computer.
* Especially smartphones or tablets are considered as a status symbol, which reduces the willingness to follow instructions for information security, such as not to use the devices for private purposes. There are cases in which employees actively bypassed the IT department's security measures with roots or jailbreaking in order to install blocked applications. However, they then had the right to read out the telephone book, causing the stored customer data to fall into unauthorized hands.




