#G 3.81 Improper use of security templates as of Windows Server 2003
Windows Server Version 2003 or higher enables the transfer of settings from templates directly into the system configuration. There are three template types for this:

* Files with the extension .inf, called security templates as of Windows Server 2003, are edited in the Security Configuration Editor (SCE).
* XML templates, known as security policies beginning with Windows Server 2003 with Service Pack 1, are edited using the Security Configuration Wizard (SCW).
* Files with the extension .pol (Windows NT 4.0 templates) can also be applied to Windows Server 2003.


All types mentioned below are referred to as security templates. They change the system configuration as soon as they are applied.

In addition to so-called security templates exist administrative templates (extension .adm).

With Windows Vista, ADM files have been replaced with ADMX template files that use a new XML-based syntax for the registry-based policies. ADMX files have the advantage that, in contrast to ADM files, they are language-neutral and can be applied to any language versions in connection with language-specific ADML files.

Unlike ADM files, ADMX files are no longer loaded individually into each GPO, but are managed in a centralized store. Because the Group Policy Management Group Policy and Group Policy Object Editor snap-ins by default connect to the PDC emulator, in an Active Directory-based environment, it is recommended to centrally store the ADMX / ADML files in the SYSVOL directory on this farm master. The operations master role PDC emulator emulates a primary or backup domain controller under Windows NT to provide backward compatibility.

It is also possible to define your own administrative templates. This procedure is especially recommended if the institution makes heavy use of direct registry settings. By uniquely defining an administrative template, the corresponding registry settings can be conveniently distributed via the Group Policy mechanism. This ensures, among other things, that the registry settings are actually implemented on all target computers.

Because security templates profoundly change the system configuration, there is a risk that certain features or the whole server will become unavailable if they have not been tested. If they are automatically rolled out to multiple servers with the aid of group policies or scripts, operation across the entire information network can be disrupted and even completely fail.

Improper handling of security templates therefore creates a high risk potential.

Possible dangers may already be caused by faulty behavior when creating security templates. The preparation is usually preceded by the analysis of requirements. Subsequently, a reference system is analyzed manually by the administrator or automatically by the SCW. The analysis processes include many components of the server and affect settings that deeply interfere with the operating system. The analysis processes can remain incomplete or fail unnoticed for technical reasons. The underlying security databases and security catalogs may be corrupt or out of date. In addition, third-party programs or a specific system configuration may have unforeseen effects on the analysis process.

The SCW can transform security templates of the SCE and include them in its security policy files. This can lead to conflicts of certain parameters. Although overall security templates can benefit from Active Directory and Group Policy distribution mechanisms, all template types must be converted to GPOs or - in the case of Windows NT 4.0 .pol files - migrated. This can also cause conflicts or compatibility issues.

The import of security templates to a server can fail if the server does not meet the requirements for the respective template. Old applications, which were not developed for current versions of Windows, often lead to unexpected effects.

In addition, permission settings that are set to Deny in the template can cause unexpected behavior that is very difficult to resolve.

For all described points, there is a risk that a template will not achieve the intended effect and the system will be put into an unforeseen state.

The dangers are considerably reduced if tests are omitted during the development and roll out of security templates or if the reference systems used in the test are not representative.

Finally, insufficient technical and organizational enforcement and control of the distribution mechanisms of security templates can also endanger the information network. If rollovers fail unnoticed, inconsistencies between servers will result. The configuration is therefore not fully compliant with the specifications, so that the security objectives are not achieved. When developing and incrementally rolling out additional templates, some target systems no longer meet the expected requirements. This relationship is also referred to as a missing policy compliance.

Security templates from Windows NT 4.0 (.pol files) increase the risk of compliance issues and incompatibilities with other template types. For .pol files, starting with Windows Server 2003, no tools are included and there is no manufacturer support.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



