#G 3.108 Incorrect configuration of Mac OS X
To change the system configuration on Mac OS X, the configuration files can be customized with a text editor, command line invocation, or a graphical user interface. If different methods are used to make changes to the system, inconsistencies can arise because the adjustments are stored in different configuration files and there is no synchronization between them. In addition, security settings may cancel each other out or complicate managing the client on Mac OS X.

For example, in the SSH configuration it is possible to directly adapt the / etc / sshd_config file as well as to use the graphical user interface in the system settings under Shares. The settings made are stored in different configuration files and not synchronized. This makes it possible, for example, that despite correct SSH configuration files, SSH dialing is not possible because the contents of the configuration files are contradictory.

Example:

* Two administrators work in a small business. One of the administrators basically uses the command line or a text editor when configuring a system. The other administrator prefers the graphical user interface. To increase personal resilience, both administrators are assigned to maintain the remote access. There are already several users in the / etc / sshd_conf file who are perSSH-enabled for remote access. When a new employee is hired, the administrator who prefers the graphical user interface creates an entry for the new employee. Because the two lists are not consistent, nobody can sign in via SSH anymore.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



