#G 3.112 Unauthorized or incorrect use of images when using Windows DISM
Deployment Image Servicing and Management (DISM) is a command-line tool as of Windows Vista Service Pack 2. It allows extensive configuration changes to Windows installations in disk image files. DISM is designed for both Windows Image Format files (WIM ) as well as virtual hard disks (VHD). Both are used when customizing a Windows system. DISM can also be partially applied to running systems.

Unauthorized changes could be made to installation sources or IT systems unnoticed, either unintentionally or by an attacker. In either case, the provisioning process can be disrupted, the security configuration of the installations damaged, and malicious code also brought into circulation.

The Windows Image Format is a data-based image format (WIM) that can contain Windows installation sources starting with the Vistabzw.Server 2008 versions. A WIM file can contain multiple Windows editions.

Essential functions of DISM are:

* Windows Edition Servicing Commands to change the Windows image
* Unattended servicing commands to perform changes without user interaction
* Driver Servicing Commands to integrate device drivers into an image
* International Servicing Commands to customize language packs
* Application Servicing Commands to integrate applications into images
* Package Servicing Commands to integrate packages into images or a running system


For Unattended Service Commands, in particular, the command / Apply-Unattended can be used to load individual files containing harmful code into an existing image without being noticed by the responsible administrator. This feature is particularly critical in the context of optionally specifying a control file in XML format, as it allows multiple files to be installed automatically.

The Application Servicing Commands can be used to identify if a particular application is included in an image. For example, the command / Get-AppInfo is used. Alternatively, all applications contained in an image can be listed with the command / Get-Apps. The display of the files in the image offers the possibility of attempting to attack certain versions of software.

The commands / Add-Package and / Remove-Package from the Package Servicing Commands allow you to replace packages under Windows 7 with DISM. This simplifies the replacement of files for a potential attacker, since a single command can be used to exchange several files at once.

Large collection images offer a lot of scope for uncontrolled changes with potentially damaging effects on the later installation. Individual software components in a collective image could be activated with / Enable-Feature and / Disable-Feature. A manifesto or central definition does not exist. Thus, there is a risk that unauthorized changes will creep into the provisioning process, whether willfully or negligently, thereby unnecessarily increasing the attack surface of the Windows systems provided and the systems will have the expected conformance t do not fulfill.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



