#G 3.110 Incorrect configuration of OpenLDAP
OpenLDAPis a directory service with extensive features. The variety of functions is achieved by the modular design of the application and the comprehensive adaptability as open source software. In addition, it is a client-server architecture, in which both server and on the client side configurations are made. Overall, OpenLDAP is a highly complex application.

In the case of a faulty configuration, for example, the following hazards may arise:

* Administrators could make customizations to the OpenLDAP configuration that are technically feasible but not technically allowed. For example, an administrator could change a default schema of OpenLDAP to gain additional directory service object attributes. This will lead to incompatibilities with other directory services when using globally uniform standard schemas, and may cause problems when updating OpenLDAP or when migrating to another directory service. Incorrect implementation may also violate the LDAP standards.
* Incorrect entries in the central configuration files of the slapd server can lead to undesirable behavior of the server or rendering it unusable, for example if a database is accidentally put into a read-only state. If instructions are incorrectly sent to backends, it is conceivable that data will be lost if, for example, these instructions do not match the database used.
* OpenLDAP can be installed from the binaries provided for an operating system distribution. Some distributions automatically start the slapd server after installation with a default configuration. Such a standard configuration is frequently inadequate, and in particular, as a rule, no measures such as the encryption of communication connections are configured.
* Configuration settings can be made in an incorrect file. For example, if user settings are entered in the global client settings file (usually ldap.conf) rather than in the correct file (usually ~ / .ldaprc), they usually have no effect. Adding client settings to the server's configuration (usually slapd.conf) can compromise the overall system's ability to work. This applies, for example, if the setting that makes sense for clients that a communication partner needs to authenticate with a certificate is applied to the server. Most clients do not have a suitable certificate.
* Access Control Lists (ACLs) are a fundamental security mechanism of OpenLDAP. The effectiveness of access rights management depends crucially on the correct configuration of the ACLs. If, for example, a particular user is to be denied access to the directory service, an administrator can implement this with an appropriate access rule at the end of the existing set of rules. However, such a rule will often not work because the check of the set of rules is aborted according to the first applicable criterion.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



