#G 3.48 Incorrect configuration of Windows / based IT systems
Windows client and server operating systems are complex systems whose security is largely determined by the set parameters. This results in particular by misconfiguration of individual or multiple components security risks that can lead from malfunction to compromising a Windows network. The following examples show some such security threats:

* Migrating from Windows NT 4.0 to a newer version of Windows preserves Windows NT access permissions, which also allow normal users extensive access to system files. As a result, access security for migrated Windows systems is generally lower than for newly installed Windows systems. A direct update of Windows NT 4.0 is only possible until Windows Server 2003.
* If the authentication mechanism NTLM is configured insecurely, it is possible to reconstruct user passwords by listening to the network traffic. This has been a problem especially when using old NTLM versions smaller than 2.0, meanwhile the version 2.0 of the NTLM protocol is also compromised.
* If EFS is configured incorrectly (for example, using local user accounts without an activated password for the syskey program), EFS encryption can be bypassed if an attacker has physical access to the computer.
* If Bitlocker is configured in basic mode (Bitlocker with TPM), the system will start up until the login window of Windows. Since the encrypted volume must be decrypted to load the operating system, an attacker who has physical access to the computer can gain access to sensitive data in this configuration.
* When setting up Bitlocker encryption, Windows 8 provides the option of backing up the Bitlocker recovery key directly via the Microsoft account. Choosing this configuration opens up new ways of attacking encryption by scanning the data with the cloud service provider.
* Misconfiguration of removable media access allows users to obtain write access to removable media, such as a USB flash drive or a CD / DVD burner, and thus leave information behind the information network.


In addition to the pure operating system configuration, security problems also arise due to the incorrect configuration of system-related services such as DNS, WINS, DHCP, RAS or IPSec. If an attacker succeeds in attacking these components successfully, the system security of the entire network is at risk.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



