#G 3.122 Incorrect use of a cloud service
If cloud services within an institution are used deviating from the requirements of the planning and design phase, there is a misuse, which may result in different kinds of dangers, in particular confidentiality.

In practice, the following expressions of incorrect use are relevant:

* Cloud services are used by users for information whose protection needs are classified higher than the protection requirement for which the cloud service used was originally defined.
* Access to a cloud service is via unauthorized channels or interfaces. As a result, undesired and uncontrolled communication connections can be established. The resulting connections can be established both from the cloud service provider to the cloud user and from the cloud to the outside. Just such a connection setup can lead to further unwanted communication links by subsequent chaining (Chaining).
* The use of special functions, such as the sharing of files or folders for other users, leads to the inadvertent granting of access rights. As a result, unauthorized persons have access to information of the institution. The confidentiality and integrity of the data is thus no longer guaranteed.




## Examples 
* An employee uses an online storage service. He uses the available options to share some of his drive with other users. In addition to the data intended for release, this drive also contains valuable data whose publication was not intended. By releasing the drive, even unauthorized persons can gain access to this data.




