#G 3.105 Unauthorized use of external services
It happens again that employees use external services without this being coordinated within their institution. This may be because they did not know what steps to take internally. But it can also come from that

* they are aware of the approval procedures, but they are too time-consuming or too long
* They also use these services privately and therefore consider them as a matter of course.


In a business use but often different conditions apply than in private. It can cause problems, though

* the use of external services is not contractually regulated,
* This creates new, unknown to information security management and thus uncontrolled data flows,
* confidential data are given unauthorized to third parties and thus internal security regulations or data protection regulations are violated,
* technical security measures such as virus protection are undermined.




## Examples 
* Employees rely on Web mail services for more flexible access to e-mail while on the go. For absences, they automatically forward their official e-mails to these web mail services. This means that confidential data may end up with competitors or personal data with foreign providers.
* Online office programs such as Google Documents or Microsoft Office 2010 Web Apps allow quick access to documents to be edited from any location. As a result, access rules of one's own institution are not only circumvented under certain circumstances. In addition, the data used is stored by a service provider, who may thus gain access to confidential data or even rights of use.




