#G 3.101 Incorrect use of guest tools in virtual IT systems
For many virtualization products so-called guest tools can be installed in the virtual IT systems. On the one hand, these guest tools can be used to provide the necessary device drivers for virtual or emulated devices such as network cards, hard disks or graphics cards for operating system virtualization. On the other hand, they provide a multitude of other functions for virtual machines. Such functions are for example:

* Shutting down the operating system of a virtual IT system without interaction in the virtual IT system directly via the virtualization server,
* Exchange the contents of the clipboard between the console emulation of the virtual machine and the user's workstation,
* Seamless integration of the mouse pointer of the workstation of the user of a virtual machine with their console emulation,
* Simplified loading and unloading of data carriers into the virtual IT systems. These can be physical floppy disk, CD or DVD drives as well as image files of such data carriers (ISO images).


These features increase the usability of virtual IT systems by a user and further enable automated management of the virtual machine's state of operation (power on / off, power on and power off) of virtual IT systems.



## Examples 
* In a medium-sized business, several virtualization servers are used. These servers operate multiple virtual IT systems. Some of them are part of an ERP system that runs all of the company's commercial applications. This ERP system is not managed by the same administrators as the virtualization servers. Since the servers belonging to the ERP system have been identified as having a high protection requirement, these systems only need to be shut down when a maintenance period has been agreed with the users of the ERP system. Furthermore, the servers may only be shut down by specially authorized administrators, which must be logged and documented by the respective administrator. In order to implement this guideline technically, in the operating system of the virtual IT system the authorization to stop the individual ERP systems was only assigned to the ERP administrators. Furthermore, the operating system has been configured to force the administrator to specify the reason for this before shutting down. One of the virtualization servers now has a fan exhausted. Although this is not directly critical for the function of the server, the defective fan should be replaced immediately. The administrator of the virtualization server agrees with a service technician of the server manufacturer an appointment for the repair. The technician of the manufacturer appears the next day during the morning. He has the needed spare part with him and would like to start the repair immediately, because he has more appointments. To replace the fan, the virtualization server must be turned off. The virtualization server administrator now runs the virtualization server from the management console. All virtual IT systems are also automatically shut down via the guest tools. The guest tools shut down the systems without the required logging and also do not check whether the administrator was authorized at all. After the repair, the administrator switches the virtualization server back on and boots up all virtual IT systems. During the repair, important parts of the ERP system are not available and there is a great deal of lost working time Some employees can not do their job. The administrators of the ERP system are reprimanded by the company's management because they have violated the guidelines and have not ensured that the ERP systems can only be shut down by authorized administrators, logging rules were ignored.
* The administrator of a virtual IT system is bored, exploring the features of the guest tools installed on the virtual IT system. He finds the function to connect and disconnect physical CD or DVD drives of the virtualization server. Since he does not know that opening the drive drawer in the virtual IT system actually opens the physical drive drawer of the virtualization server, he plays around with the function. A technician who is in the server room at this time and working on an IT system adjacent to the virtualization server, the open drive will not notice and will hang with its sleeve on the drawer. The drive will be damaged and must be replaced.




