#G 3.53 Incorrect configuration of LDAP access to Novell eDirectory
The ldap access to the directory service of eDirectory is especially suitable for two scenarios:

* the user access to the directory service  via the Internet and
* Access to the directory service by other applications.


In principle, there are three types of user access via LDAP from the point of view of eDirectory:

* as a [public] object (Anonymous Bind),
* as Proxy User (Proxy User Anonymous Bind),
* as NDS User (NDS User Bind).


It should be noted that the [Public] object in eDirectory by default always has the browse right over the directory tree, unless this right has not been explicitly revoked. Furthermore, it must be taken into consideration that without the configuration of suitable authentication mechanisms there is a risk that the user passwords will be transmitted in plain text. Encryption of the transmission is only possible if the communication between client and eDirectory server is over.

With the SSL configuration, there are also possibilities of error, which can lead to a lowering of the security level or the performance.

It should also be noted which LDAP version the clients support and which configuration options exist there. Under certain circumstances, misunderstandings may occur and the safety of the operation may be impaired.

For the connection of network publications via LDAP to the eDirectory directory service, the same dangers arise in principle as with access by clients, namely:

* the unauthorized access to the directory,
* the loss of integrity and confidentiality of the data held in the directory,
* the unwanted establishment of a back door for the system.


Status: as of 2006



