#G 3.13 Passing on false or internal information
When passing on information, it happens again and again that in addition to the desired information, other information is transmitted. As a result, confidential information or information that is not suitable for publication often fall into the wrong hands. This can happen when sending or transferring data media as well as during personal or telephone exchanges or any other form of data transfer. Another possibility is the unintended disclosure of data in the transfer, sale or disposition of supposedly deleted data carriers.

It is conceivable that a data carrier intended for dispatch or other transfer may already contain data from previous work which the recipient should not be aware of. These data can be read by the recipient if they have not been physically deleted by the sender before.

In addition, if the data to be transmitted are in a directory with further data which are also in need of protection, there is a risk that they will be accidentally transmitted to the data carrier (for example, for the sake of simplicity the entire directory has been copied) and the receiver unnecessary (unauthorized) notice.

Frequently, data sets are not to be exchanged via a physical data carrier, but are to be sent directly via data networks, for example via e-mail in the Internet, modem connection, internal company networks or an X.400 service. Many communication programs offer the possibility of using short names for complex address structures and distribution lists for multiple mailing. If such distribution lists are not maintained centrally or updated on a regular basis, data sets can be sent to addresses that belong to persons who are no longer authorized.

It happens again and again that information on data carriers that are to be passed on, sold or taken out of service has not been completely deleted. The simple delete commands of most operating systems can be reset or the data can be restored with freely available software tools. Supposedly destroyed data can be read out and used without authorization.

Even with classic mail it often happens that confidential documents are sent by mistake to the wrong recipient or that letters are printed together with internal comments and stamped unnoticed. Frequently, documents should also be forwarded, from which only some confidential partial information, such as names, must be removed. It may happen that this is not or only inappropriately, z. B. because passages were overlooked or the wrong method was chosen.



## Examples 
* In a public agency, the data stored on it was not completely and irreversibly deleted when an invalid disk was used because an inappropriate tool was used. The reconstruction with freely available software tools was therefore possible. After selling IT systems and data media, customers were able to view and redistribute sensitive data.
* A commonly used method to obscure partial information in documents is blackening. However, many things can go wrong here: with documents on paper, confidential passages are often overpainted with black felt pens. The original information can often be made visible again by holding the document against the light. In May 2005, the Pentagon published an investigation report on the Internet, which blurred personal names and information on the military situation in Iraq had been. From the PDF file, however, the blackened data could be made visible again simply by copying and pasting via the clipboard. In the original Word document, the Pentagon had provided the passages with a black background only. In the PDF export, however, the underlying text was preserved.




