#G 3.87 Incorrect configuration of directory services
Misconfiguration of software is one of the most common causes of successful attacks. With directory services, the high complexity and the large number of available parameters can result in additional security problems due to ignored side effects. Misconfigurations can have particularly serious consequences in the following areas:

* Certificate Server,
* Creation and definition of the tree structure itself,
* Establishment of the objects to be imaged
* Access mechanisms,
* Allocation of access rights,
* LDAP access to the directory service,
* Partitioning the directory database,
* Replication of the directory service,
* Intranet client access to the directory service,
* Real-time alert mechanism,
* Definition of the events to be recorded,
* Access rights of the administrator tool as well
* Setting an automated backup mechanism.


The configuration of a system must be fundamentally aligned with its security policy. In the case of misconfiguration, there is a risk that such a guideline will be implemented inadequately or incorrectly and thus the objectives of the security specifications will not be achieved.

The configuration of a role-based administration of the directory system as well as a delegation of administration rights are usually key functionalities of a directory service. An incorrect configuration of these functionalities may result in considerable problems due to unauthorized system accesses. Furthermore, in the event of a faulty configuration, there is a risk that regulated administration is no longer possible.

The following list shows possible security-relevant consequences with regard to a misconfiguration of the directory service:

* Incorrect granting of rights for access to the objects of the directory service,
* Selection of weak cryptographic authentication mechanisms,
* unauthorized system access via administration interfaces,
* Blocking the administration of the system,
* insufficient protection against system attacks,
* Incorrect or incomplete storage of data in multiple directory databases (replication) as well
* Inconsistencies in the implementation of the security policy.


Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



