#G 3.52 Incorrect configuration of intranet client access to Novell eDirectory
When using the eDirectory directory service on an organization's intranet, appropriate clients are required for distributed user access to the system. There are separate client software for the different operating systems:

* the Novell Client for Windows operating systems,
* a client library for Linux,
* a client library for Sun Solaris.


Client access to the eDirectory directory service is through the Novell Directory Access Protocol (NDAP) proprietary protocol. This in turn builds on the Novell NCP protocol, which can be operated via IPoderIPX.

If the Novell Client for Windows accesses the eDirectory tree (or an eDirectory object), the user name and password must be transmitted to the client. The client then searches for the corresponding object in eDirectory and transmits its private key, which is encrypted with the user password. On the client side, the private key is decrypted by means of the user password and from this a so-called credential and a signature are calculated. The private key is then deleted from the client's memory, leaving only the credential and signature. These can then be used for further background authentication to other objects or services. The user no longer has to interact with it and thus uses a single sign-on.

From the credential and the signature, a proof is generated by means of a so-called zero-knowledge method, which is transmitted to the target system. The target system can use it to verify the identity of the client. The advantage of this method is that the signature is not transmitted explicitly over the network and thus less attack possibilities exist.

Nevertheless, certain attack scenarios, so-called man-in-the-middle attacks, have become known, which, however, are of a more theoretical nature, since their use requires considerable technical effort.

Nevertheless, serious security problems can occur if

* authentication mechanisms are insufficient for client access,
* an unauthorized access to the eDirectory directory and its objects is possible or
* Administrator privileges for the directory service may be abused or unauthorized.


Status: as of 2006



