#G 3.102 Incorrect time synchronization in virtual IT systems
Common operating systems have their own internal clock. The time is usually determined by the operating system by counting processor cycles and occasionally comparing it to a reliable time source, such as a time server or an internal hardware clock. The timing and frequency of the synchronization with the reliable time source depends on the operating system used.

However, guest operating systems in virtual environments have no control over and knowledge of the actual computing time spent on the physical IT system. The calculation of the current time over the processed calculation steps as a clock is therefore unreliable. Depending on the algorithm with which the time is determined from the comparison of processor cycles and reliable time source, the clock of a virtual IT system can run or run ahead of the actual time. In extreme cases, it may even cause the clock of the operating system to run backwards. This can lead to undesirable effects that significantly affect the security of the virtual infrastructure under unfavorable circumstances.

For example, timestamps in the file system of a virtual machine with a wrong clock are unreliable. As a result, inconsistencies in the backup can occur if the filesystem timestamps determine which files are to be backed up.

Troubleshooting problems is also hindered, as the timing of the events that led to the problem can not be reliably determined. Moreover, in the event of security incidents with incorrect timestamps in event logs, it is impossible to prove conclusive statements in the worst case, since the correlation of events with the timestamps is not possible.

If authentication methods are used in virtual IT systems that are based on correct time stamps for the transmission of authentication keys (eg Kerberos), logins may fail.

Various distributed database systems and directory services, such as Active Directory, use time stamps to check consistency during replication operations. If these timestamps are unreliable, inconsistencies can occur in these systems.



