#G 3.119 Incorrect application of standards
For the realization of web services, numerous standards are available (see M 4.451 Current Web Service Standards), which in particular achieve a high level of complexity in their interaction and their dependencies.

As a consequence of this complexity, errors in the application of the standards are obvious. Such errors can have a variety of consequences:

* The standard is not implemented effectively. In particular, this can lead to the security functions provided not being implemented effectively by, for example, not carrying out authorization checks or encrypting them. Example: A typing error was made in a security-relevant SOAP header, but is also missing the attribute env: mustUnderstand = true. The SOAP node can not interpret the header due to the typo and ignores it.
* The application of the standard is not carried out in the intended manner or to the extent intended. Thus, it is conceivable that, for example, XML signatures do not include all relevant components of a message, or that they are not encrypted with sufficiently secure algorithms. For example, an XML signature is generated using an XML element that is multiple times in the XML structure used so that an attacker using XMLSignature Wrapping can semantically change the contents of the message without losing the signature's validity.
* The implementation generates errors in the operation that may only occur in special situations and limit the availability of the web service. Example: Authorization checks are aborted with an error if the calling user of a particular combination of role and organizational unit.
* The implementation includes additional functions covered by the respective standard that are not required for the specific web service. Such unused functions offer the attacker a higher attack surface and can be misused, in particular, for attacks on the availability of the web service. For example, parsing a message resolves external XML references, although this is not required for the affected web service.


Implementation errors can result in an inadvertent impairment of the availability, disclosure, or falsification of information or metadata because the implemented services do not work or function incorrectly. On the other hand, attackers can also deliberately investigate such implementation errors (see G 5.184 Information Acquisition about Web Services) and exploit them to attack the availability, confidentiality, or integrity of the Web service.

Due to the high dependency of the relevant standards among each other, there is also a risk that errors in the application of a standard only show their effects in the context of directly or indirectly dependent standards and components, so that the error can only be limited and remedied with great effort can.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



