#G 3.7 Failure of the PBX due to incorrect operation
In addition to the technical failure due to defective components, power failure or sabotage, there are a number of other circumstances that can lead to the failure of a telecommunications system or other telecommunications equipment. So it can happen due to the generally large range of functions of a PBX that unwanted functions are triggered when it is operated incorrectly. A failure can be caused, for example, by inadequately trained maintenance personnel, if this improperly configures the PBXs. If alarm signals are disregarded or an abnormal operating behavior is not detected, this can lead to malfunctions. Improper or unreasonable action with actually simple routine repairs can also be a reason for the failure of a PBX.

As there are far-reaching conceptual and technological differences between traditional PBX and VoIP solutions, switching to VoIP often requires extensive re-training of staff. In addition, extensive knowledge of IP network technology is required. Failure to service the PBX as a result of insufficient knowledge can cause more than just telecommunications infrastructure failures when connecting to IP networks. If the VoIP media stream is to be transmitted over a data network to which the workstations and servers are also connected, a misconfiguration can lead to a failure of the entire data network.



## Examples 
* In the configuration of the VoIP system, an insufficient compression algorithm is selected for the transmission of the voice data, which thereby uses too much bandwidth and thus leads to an overload of the data network. As a result, neither productive work on the workstations nor the remote configuration of the VoIP system is possible. The administrator responsible for the VoIP PBX suspects the problem of a faulty configuration of the network, for which another administrator is responsible, and therefore does not become active. Only after analyzing network activity will the problem be discovered and resolved. Although the actual correction of the configuration error took just a few minutes, the entire operation was significantly disrupted for over an hour.
* Due to the intentional or unintentional misconfiguration of a PABX system, for example, individual connections can be configured by changing the extension number so that they are no longer accessible from outside. If a dial tone is signaled externally in the event of such interference, it may take some time for such a malfunction to be detected.




