#G 3.84 Incorrect configuration of the WLAN infrastructure
Access points and other WLAN components offer a variety of configuration settings, including in particular the use of security features. If incorrect settings are made here, then it can happen that either no communication via the access point is possible or the communication is insufficiently protected, even though the users assume that there is an existing protection. Incorrect configuration of WLAN components can cause various security issues, such as:

* If an access point is insufficiently secured against unauthorized access, this could lead to configuration changes leading to further security gaps.
* An inconsistent configuration of the WLAN security mechanisms on the access points can result in availability problems or security gaps.
* If the Internet can be accessed via a WLAN, Internet use by anyone who can connect to the WLAN is possible without further filter mechanisms.
* Freely releasing directories or other system resources on a WLAN client could allow an attacker to gain unobserved access to the client.
* An improperly configured or user-disabled personal firewall of a WLAN client may be exposed to operating system-level attacks. This is particularly problematic in foreign environments and hotspots.


Security problems also cause remote support accesses to WLANs, if they are not adequately secured and are used over insecure networks. If misconfigurations have been made here, this can lead, for example, to the fact that a WLAN client is compromised and an attacker thereby obtains information about the access to the WLAN. This information can then be used to attack the entire WLAN and any connected LAN.

Status: as of 2006



