#G 3.88 Incorrect assignment of access rights
Due to the close relationship between the directory service and the underlying operating system and the fact that directory services contain a number of critical data from system users and resources, the correct assignment of access rights to the directory service is particularly critical to security.

The access control lists themselves are so-called attributes (properties) for the respective objects. Access rights exist on objects themselves, but also on individual attributes of an object. The access rights to objects are inherited by default from father to child objects within the tree hierarchy. Inappropriate partitioning of the directory may result in breaks in this inheritance mechanism.

There is also the danger that inconsistent or incorrect access options could be assigned due to the variety of configuration options for the access rights. If the access rights in the directory service are assigned incorrectly, the security of the entire system is considerably jeopardized. For example, the confidentiality and integrity of data could be compromised and possible backdoors could be opened for far-reaching system attacks.

A particularly critical point is also the allocation of administration rights, such as the implementation of a role-based administration concept or the delegation of individual administration tasks by assigning appropriate access rights. If these rights are assigned incorrectly, the entire administration concept can be called into question and, under certain circumstances, even the directory system administration can be blocked.

Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



