#G 3.9 Incorrect administration of IT systems
Administration adversely affects the security of an IT system if it disregards or circumvents security measures. Any modification of security settings and the extension of access rights pose a potential threat to overall security.

The incorrect installation of software can cause security problems. Standard installations of operating systems or system programs rarely have all the features of a secure configuration. Lack of adjustments to the specific security requirements can pose a significant risk here. The danger of misconfiguration exists especially in complex security systems, where system functions often influence each other.

The causes for incorrectly executed administration activities can be of various origin. It is conceivable here, for example, incorrect operation, which are caused by the following aspects.

* The process documentation is missing or is not updated. It does not give the administrator any information about how to handle necessary security settings.
* The high technical complexity of the IT system means that the administrator can no longer survey the impact of his activities as a whole. Adjusting a system parameter affects other parameters that may not originally be related.
* The lack of standardization of an IT system or its components leads to it reacting differently to the settings of an administrator than desired.
* Due to the lack of implementation of the four-eyes principle, the operating error of an administrator initially remains undetected.
* The administrators employed have insufficient knowledge in connection with the operation of the IT systems used.
* The misinterpretation of recorded events leads to the execution of administrative work, which subsequently proves to be faulty. The actual cause of the event is not investigated at first.


The execution of maintenance or operating work is usually carried out on the basis of administrative authorizations. Possible dangers for the institution result, for example, from:

* non-compliance with standard operating procedures (SOP),
* a wrong patch order,
* patching without running a previous test and release procedure,
* Failure to comply with the manufacturer's compatibility matrix.


The creation and maintenance of a corresponding operating manual is the prerequisite for the traceability of the configuration and functioning of the IT systems used. If this is missing, errors can sometimes be retraced and eliminated.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



