#G 3.1 Confidentiality or integrity loss of data due to misconduct
Due to misconduct of persons of all kinds the confidentiality or integrity loss of information and data can be brought about or made possible. The consequential damage results from the need for protection of the data. Examples of such misconduct are:

* Employees do not accidentally fetch printouts with personal data from the network printer.
* Confidential information is discussed in the presence of third parties, for example, during breaks in meetings or on mobile phones in public environments.
* Data carriers are sent without the previously stored data being deleted in a suitable way.
* Documents are published on a web server without having been checked as to whether they are actually intended for publication and released.
* Due to incorrectly administered access rights, an employee can change data without being able to assess the relevance of this breach of integrity.
* New software is tested with non-anonymized data. Unauthorized employees thus gain insight into protected files or confidential information. In addition, third parties may also gain knowledge of this information because the disposal of test printouts is not regulated accordingly.
* When removing, distributing, submitting for repair or discarding hard disks, data on file systems that are still intact can be put into unauthorized hands if they have not previously been deleted irreversibly.
* If an outsourcing service provider manages several clients, data from a outsourcing organization can be made accessible to other clients of the outsourcing service provider through human error. Possible causes can be, for example, the following: Selection of an incorrect e-mail address from the address book. Unintentional copy-paste (eg of configuration files from systems of different clients) .Post dispatch (eg from backup media , Contracts) to the wrong address.


Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



