#G 3.97 Confidentiality violation despite BitLocker Drive Encryption as of Windows Vista
BitLocker Drive Encryption (BDE) is a program for encrypting partitions on volumes. BitLocker requires at least two partitions: an unencrypted system partition, typically S: /, which does not appear in Explorer, and the actual Windows partition, typically C: /, on which the operating system is installed.

BDE completely encrypts the Windows partition, except for the boot sector and an area with BitLocker metadata. Further partitions on internal hard disks, such as a data partition, can only be encrypted by BDE with Service Pack 1 as of Windows Vista. For Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2, BDE includes the BitLocker To Go feature for encrypting external and virtual disks.

A user of Windows Vista without Service Pack 1 may mistakenly assume that BDE encodes all data on a hard disk, including data in an additional data partition. This may help protect confidentiality of user data if it is stored in an unshipped form contrary to the user's acceptance.

BDE is completely transparent in a running Windows system. During the startup process, BDE decodes the partitions after entering the correct access data or biometric identifier. These are decoded throughout the life of the IT system. For this period there is no protection of confidentiality by BDE. Thus, BDE in particular does not protect against confidentiality breaches by malicious code.

The BDE configuration of local disks requires administrative permissions. Mobile and virtual media have normal user permissions. If a user or malicious program has administrative privileges or user rights, they may be used to uncheck BDE, add additional keys, and delete key material.

The consequence of disabling or unauthorized adding your own key is the loss of confidentiality. The deletion of key material of the system partition leads to the loss of the availability of the entire system.

The deactivation of BDE or the unwanted deletion of key material, provided that administrative authorizations are granted, can also be the result of incorrect operation of the system-supplied management-bde.wsf or manage-bde.exe maintenance tools.

A confidentiality violation in spite of BitLocker Drive Encryption threatens even if unauthorized persons know the recovery key. With this a BDE encrypted partition can be decrypted again. This is independent of a Trusted Platform Module (TPM), as the recovery key is intended to facilitate decryption, particularly in the event of a defective TPM.

For maintenance purposes, the BDE configuration tools allow you to temporarily disable disk partition encryption without decrypting the data. The data will then remain encrypted, but an open start key (Clear Key) will be stored unprotected on the drive. The integrity check during startup is also switched off. The system can be started in this state without authentication, even on other hardware, and allows unhindered data access. It can be copied and the Clear Key can be read out. An attacker could use this and try to extract protected key material in order to avoid data encryption later on.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



