#G 3.5 Unintentional cable damage
The more unprotected a cable is laid, the greater the risk of unintentional damage. Damage does not necessarily immediately lead to a failure of connections. The accidental formation of inadmissible connections is also possible if, for example, cable sheathing or insulation is no longer completely intact. The following examples are typical for such indoor damage:

* When installed on-the-fly, equipment connection cables can be torn out if employees or visitors stumble over it.
* In a device connection cable, a cable break can occur if mobile motors are rolled over the line.
* Pipes installed under plaster can be damaged by drilling or nailing in the wrong place.
* Water can cause damage, such as when water enters windowsill cable ducts or floor ducts, through windows that open when it rains, or during building cleaning.
* Lines laid on plaster or screed can be battered when transporting bulky and heavy objects.
* Cables can already be damaged if they are unplugged from the socket rather than the plug.
* Operating equipment can be overloaded if z. B.Ger te be connected with an inadmissibly high total power to a socket distribution.


In the outdoor area, line damage can be caused, for example, by the following events:

* Cables can be damaged in civil engineering work, both in manual excavation and in excavator use.
* Water can penetrate into ground tracks or underground cables.
* Cables can be nibbled by rodents.
* Tracks and cables can be damaged by roots (tree roots have enough power to squeeze cables).
* The permissible traffic loads can be exceeded (tubes may break, cables may shear off).
* Plugs Combinations of temporarily routed cables for tools and machines can be overrun.




