#G 3.90 Incorrect administration of VPNs
The incorrect administration of a VPN endpoint can threaten the availability, confidentiality and integrity of the participating networks. This therefore represents a not insignificant hazard potential for safe operation.

For VPNs, here are the following aspects:

* Security-relevant routine tasks on the VPN client are often neglected. These include, for example, the regular backup or testing for computer viruses. In particular, mobile VPN clients are usually carried by the respective user and are therefore difficult to access for system administration. Although remote administration can also take place during a set-up VPN connection, depending on the usage profile the connection times are too short to perform a controlled remote maintenance. If the administrative tasks are not carried out on a regular basis, unconfigured configurations may occur, for example.


* The remote administration of computers can be done with the help of popular software products and is often already possible in the sense of mechanisms of the operating system. The use of unauthorized software (by the user or the administrator) may result in unauthorized protocols being used over a VPN connection and vulnerabilities resulting from insecure settings.


* Encrypted data can not be verified by computer virus protection programs. Therefore, if the concepts for encrypting data and protecting against malicious code are not matched, there is an increased risk that, for example, computer viruses, Trojan horses or worms may be introduced via the VPN client and cause damage to the network.


* Since VPN clients are often operated in unsafe environments and thus, for example, the exchange of data carriers can not be practically controlled, computer viruses and other harmful code represent a particularly serious threat If the VPN client does not have a current computer virus protection program installed, there is a high risk that, for example, computer viruses, Trojan horses or worms can reach the LAN via the VPN client.


* If bandwidth-intensive functions are performed via VPN connections, there is a risk that the user will interrupt the VPN connection and rebuild it because he assumes that there is a malfunction. In reality, only the response time is unacceptably long, because the bandwidth is not sufficient. This can lead to inconsistencies in the application data and increased burdens on the VPN.


* Since VPNs are, from a certain size and structure, very complex, configuration errors can lead to insecure and incorrect settings. This danger is especially great if the administrators are not adequately trained in the techniques and products used. Here the misconfigurations range from missing security settings to incompatible communication protocols. The consequences are equally wide-ranging. For example, it may happen that connections are not required or that unauthorized third parties can successfully connect to the VPN gateway.


Any modification of security settings by untrained administrators as well as the extension of access rights (see G 3.16 Incorrect administration of access and access rights) can impair the overall security. Often the configuration changes made on VPN endpoints are neither backed up nor documented. If the components fail, the last changes, which would be necessary for a successful restart of the system, are no longer known. A poor operating concept and inadequately planned maintenance windows can also have a negative effect on the availability of the VPN.



## Examples 
* A new, so far untrained administrator carelessly changes a configuration parameter of the VPN. This leads to a prolonged interruption of the joint connection between a manufacturer and its supplier. As a result, there is a costly production downtime because urgently needed parts are not delivered.
* A company uses a software management system that regularly installs new software updates on each user's computer. Due to a configuration error, the mobile VPN clients are also included in this procedure. After a successful connection, the entire bandwidth is used by the management software, which carries a larger update package to the mobile client.




