#G 4.39 Software conception errors
When planning programs and protocols, security-relevant design errors may arise. Often, these mistakes are historically quite understandable. Certainly none of the developers of the protocols used on the Internet at the end of the 1960s assumed that these protocols would once become the basis for a global and commercially very important computer network.



## Examples 
* Examples of conceptual errors are the open transfer of data on the Internet, so that data (eg passwords) can be read or changed, or the possibility of sending packets with Internet addresses that have been assigned to another computer. A special case of this is the so-called FTP bounce attack, in which it is exploited that the connection used in the FTP protocol for data transmission can be set up on any computer. In the unfavorable case, even firewalls with dynamic packet filters can be overcome in this way (see CERTAdvisory 97-27). Other errors in the Internet protocols are certainly present and will be published in the future.
* Another example of a design error is the so-called DNA spoofing (see also G 5.78 DNS spoofing). The Domain Name System is the central information service on the Internet, which allows the translation of the slightly noticeable computer names such as www.preiswert.de into the corresponding Internet address. In DNS spoofing, an attacker tries to assign a wrong machine to a machine name, so that information seekers are misdirected.
* Another example of a design error is the possibility of anonymously sending a large number of advertising e-mails (mail spamming). In this case, foreign mail servers are often used as so-called remailers, so that counteractions by the recipient run into the void. The cause of these attacks is clearly the lack of authentication available from the Internet at the moment.




