#G 4.91 Unauthorized re-importing of snapshots
With the help of snapshots, the status of a virtual machine can be preserved at a certain point in time without adversely affecting the execution of the virtual IT system.

When creating a snapshot, the virtual hard disk is frozen and subsequent writes are redirected to a separate file. The current state of virtual machines with active snapshots results from the superposition of all snapshots with the base file.

Snapshots can be created with or without the contents of the memory of the virtual IT system. Without memory contents, snapshots usually reflect the state of the virtual IT system, which was not shut down but switched off during operation. Snapshots with memory content allow the IT system to be brought exactly to the state it was in at the time of the snapshot. h.it is possible to return to a running operating system with open applications.

A cloud administrator can create a snapshot, and thus a backup copy of the system, if needed (eg before applying a patch). This snapshot can be used to back up the system at any time, for example if a patch does not work properly.

When importing a wrong snapshot, an outdated version of the system could be brought in which contains old security settings or patches, which in turn could lead to weak points in the system.

The snapshots can also be replayed in an unauthorized manner by the administrator. Thus, it is conceivable that an administrator unauthorized einspielt a snapshot copy on a third-party system and thus creates a complete mirroring of the IT system in a foreign environment. In this third-party environment, he may unknowingly try to gain access to the system.



## Examples 
* A cloud administrator takes a snapshot of a system running a human resources database for a HR application. He copies this snapshot unnoticed to an external hard drive and later installs it on his private virtualization platform. He then converts the system to a bootable hard disk. With a recovery tool, he can now boot the operating system of this disk and reset the system's local administrator password. Then he can start the system as an administrator and assign the necessary database authorizations to access the database contents.




