#G 4.13 Loss of stored data
The loss of stored data can have a significant impact on IT use. If the application data or the customer master data is lost or misused, private companies can be threatened in their existence. The loss or falsification of important files can delay or even exclude administrative and specialized tasks in public agencies.

The loss of stored data can have a significant impact on business processes and thus on the entire institution. If business-relevant information of any kind is destroyed or misused, business processes and specialized tasks can be delayed or even prevented from executing. Overall, the loss of stored data, in addition to the loss of production and the cost of recovering the data, can lead to long-term consequences, such as customer and partner confidence and a negative impact on the public. The direct and indirect damage caused by data loss can even threaten the existence of institutions.

The reasons for the loss of stored data can be manifold:

* Demagnetization of magnetic data carriers due to aging or due to unsuitable ambient conditions (temperature, humidity),
* Disturbance of magnetic data carriers by external magnetic fields,
* Destruction of data media due to force majeure such as fire or water,
* accidental deletion or overwriting of files,
* deliberate or accidental setting of deletion marks in archive systems (see also G 5.106 Unauthorized overwriting or deletion of archive media),
* technical failure of peripheral memories (head crash),
* faulty data carriers,
* uncontrolled changes in stored data (loss of integrity) and
* Data destruction by malicious programs.


Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



