#G 4.34 Failure of a crypto module
If a crypto module is used to ensure the confidentiality of valuable data, the error-free functioning of the crypto module is of particular importance. The failure of such a crypto module in use can be due to various causes:

* technical defect that affects the functionality,
* Power failure, as a result of which the cached cryptographic keys are deleted, so that the crypto module can no longer be encrypted properly as a result,
* unintentional or intentional destruction by mechanical action, incorrect operation or similar.


The consequential damage due to the failure of a crypto module can also be versatile. Here are in particular to call:

* The cryptographic protection of a data transmission link is no longer possible, so that the confidentiality temporarily can no longer be maintained. This is particularly critical if the failure is not noticed and the malfunction no longer takes place, even though the users rely on the confidentiality of the data through the crypto module.
* Encrypted data can no longer be decrypted as long as the required crypto module is no longer available. This can result in availability problems for IT applications that further process the decoded data.
* If the crypto module malfunctions without a complete failure, data is incomplete or incorrectly encrypted. In both cases, it may mean that in the case of data transmission, the receiver of the data or, if the data is stored locally, the user can no longer decode the data correctly. Without appropriate backups, this may mean a total loss of data.


Status: as of 2005



