#G 4.98 Failure of cloud service administration tools
The failure of management tools in the context of the use of cloud services represents a threat to the institution. Possible causes for the failure of management tools may be, for example, software vulnerabilities or errors as described in G 4.22 Software Vulnerabilities or Errors.

In general, a distinction must be made between the failure of management tools that are relevant for the use of cloud services and the management servers or the management software on the part of the cloud service provider.

When cloud management servers fail, almost all cloud management processes are directly or indirectly affected, eliminating many or all cloud management features, such as administrative interfaces. For more information, see G4.93 Failure of Management Servers and Management Software of B 5.23 Cloud Management.

In the context of cloud usage, a distinction must be made between management tools with regard to their provision. Often, these are made available to the using institution by the cloud service provider. In addition, there are management tools provided by third parties, so-called third-party management tools. In this case, the user can select from different products available on the market. Third party management tools are typically dependent on the API (interface) defined by the cloud service provider. If he changes the API, access to the corresponding management tool can be disrupted.

Such prevention of access by management tools represents a danger to the institution. As a result, the administrator can not make any changes to existing services on the part of the using institution.



## Examples 
* For a service provided as a platform as a service, additional storage capacity must be requested. The institution uses third-party software to administer the cloud service. However, the management tool used can not access the corresponding interface of the cloud service provider. The availability of the service concerned can no longer be ensured in the sequel.




