#G 4.67 Failure of directory services
Technical failure due to hardware or software problems may result in the loss of a directory service or parts thereof. As a result, the data held in the directory is temporarily no longer accessible. In extreme cases, data loss can occur. As a result, business processes and internal work processes can be hindered. If functional copies of the failed system parts are available, access is still possible, but depending on the selected network topology, this may only be possible with limited efficiency.

Even a technical defect in a central cryptographic module can significantly affect the functionality of a directory service, if this means that access to the directory service components is no longer possible. Cryptographic keys could be used here, eg z. for securing a data transmission link of a directory service are deleted, in particular if they have been stored only hastily. The consequence is that the confidentiality temporarily can no longer be maintained. This is especially critical if the failure is not noticed and encryption no longer takes place due to the malfunction, even though the directory service provider relies on securing the confidentiality of the data by the cryptographic module. Encrypted data could then not be decrypted as long as the required cryptographic module is not available, resulting, for example, in availability problems for the directory service or other applications which the user decides continue to process data.

Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



