#G 4.21 Equalizing currents on shieldings
If IT devices which are supplied with electrical power via a TN-C network are connected to each other by data lines with shields placed on both sides, compensating currents may appear on the screen (an explanatory drawing contains M  1.39 Prevention of equalizing currents on shieldings).

The reason for this is the peculiarity of the TN-C network, in which protective (PE) and neutral (N) conductors are routed together as PEN conductors down to the individual distributions. Only in the distribution is the division into N-conductor and PE conductor. This installation is permissible according to VDE 0100 regulations for the installation of power installations with nominal voltages up to 1000 V!

If the interface shields connected to PE are connected to each other by shielded data lines by devices which are connected to different distributions, the PEN conductor is connected in parallel between the distributions and the shielding between the interfaces. The compensating current flowing through the shielding can cause damage to the interfaces and personal injury when working on the data lines.

There are no equalizing currents flowing between devices connected in a TN-C network at the same distribution or between devices connected in a TN-S network, even at different distributions Shielding of data lines.

In TN-CS networks, some sections are designed as a TN-C network, others as a TN-S network. As long as data lines with shields placed on both sides are only routed within similar subregions, the same conditions apply here as in the respective networks. However, if IT devices from different areas are connected via data cables with shielding applied on both sides, compensating currents can also flow in the TN-S range!

Stand: 9. EL Stand 2007



