#G 4.93 Failure of management servers and management software
For a cloud IT infrastructure, multiple virtualization servers and, if necessary, multiple servers are used to manage the cloud. In the event of a failure of a cloud administration server, the availability of all cloud services does not necessarily have to be directly affected, since the virtualized components can continue to operate autonomously even without administration. However, when cloud management servers fail, almost all cloud management processes are directly or indirectly affected, leaving many or all cloud management functions inoperable.

No configuration changes are possible and automated orchestration processes are no longer available.

Similarly, the failure affects the availability of the administrative interfaces. Cloud administrators can not respond to emerging issues or integrate new cloud resources (physical and virtual) into the cloud IT infrastructure during a time when management servers fail.



## Examples 
* If the management server or its monitoring component delivers incorrect or no data, the function of the cloud infrastructure can no longer be adequately monitored by the administrators. Resource bottlenecks go unnoticed in the virtual infrastructure and an extension of the virtual infrastructure can not be performed on time. The failure of individual cloud components can also not be detected in time if the monitoring component has failed. Data or memory are then exhausted and parts of the system environment are no longer operational.




