#G 4.20 Overload of information systems
If information or communication systems such as hardware, software or networks are not sufficiently dimensioned, the point is eventually reached where they no longer meet the requirements of the users. Depending on the type of systems involved, this can have a variety of negative effects.

Triggers for the   burden of information systems can be that

* existing storage capacities are exceeded, for example, if the mailbox skips in the event of a long absence of the owner,
* numerous requests at the same time overuse a system and thereby overburden the processors,
* too much computing power is claimed by the applications, eg. B. if process performance is not sufficient for intensive graphics applications,
* a large number of messages will be sent out as newsletters at the same time.


Possible consequences may be, for example, that IT systems or services are temporarily unavailable or that data loss occurs.

Each storage medium can only record a limited amount of data. If this limit is reached, this can lead to data loss, but also to the fact that services are no longer available, such as. B.dass

* Users can no longer save data,
* Incoming e-mails may be rejected and, in addition, e-mails may no longer be sent,
* incoming and possibly outgoing faxes are rejected,
* Logging is no longer possible or unprocessed log data can be overwritten or
* Documents can no longer be archived electronically.


The capacity of the storage medium may be suddenly depleted for various reasons, eg. For example, errors in application programs, increased memory requirements of the user or even a targeted attack in which the existing space is reduced to prevent logging.

Electronic archiving usually requires large amounts of data. On the one hand, the amount of data comes from the large number of documents that have to be archived for certain processes. In addition, on the other hand, every newly created version of a document is saved again with the assignment of a new version number.

Resources can also be deliberately overloaded if someone generates an intensive demand for a resource and thus provokes an intensive and lasting disruption of the equipment, see also G5.28 Prevention of services.

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



