#G 4.92 Incompatibility between the cloud administration and the administration of the cloud elements
A cloud infrastructure consists of a large number of cloud elements. In addition to the physical (with CPU, memory and other hardware) and virtual servers (with virtual counterparts to physical server hardware), there are also networks (with network elements, cabling) and memory solutions. The listed areas have management software, such as. B.Netzmanagement tools. These are also called element managers. The cloud management software typically communicates with the element managers rather than directly with the associated components (for example, Routers).

A threat of improper communication between cloud management software and cloud elements occurs when products from different vendors (or the same) are incompatible with each other and do not support common protocols.

Centralized management software communicates with the cloud elements via interfaces to request the required cloud resources. If the communication between the cloud management software and the cloud elements is not correct, there is a risk that the cloud elements (such as servers, networks, storage) will discard the configurations or the communication will fail.

The feedback on implementing cloud element configuration and usage information for the cloud management software is of great importance to the orchestration process. If the cloud elements do not correctly report this configuration and utilization information to the cloud management software, cloud management can not track the correct provisioning of cloud services.



## Examples 
* In the communication between the cloud management software and the cloud elements (virtual routers and switches) is switched to a new version of the management protocol (eg SNMP). However, the switch's Cloud Element Manager does not support the new version, so communication will fail.




