#G 4.58 Vulnerabilities in the use of VoIP terminals
There are two types of VoIP terminals: hardphones and softphones. Hardphones are standalone devices with mostly proprietary operating systems connected directly to the IP network. Some hardphones load their current configuration via the TFTP protocol.

Softphones are application programs installed on the computer whose functionality is similar to that of a hardphone. For access to the IP network, softphones use the interface of the computer, which they share with other installed applications.

All VoIP terminals essentially offer similar functions that can be affected by programs with damage functions. The range of threats extends from the partial impairment of normal operations to a complete takeover of control of the device by the attacker.

Inadequate security measures may lead to the spread of malicious software, such as Trojan horses. Trojan horses, for example, could be used in VoIP use to transmit private information of a subscriber or conversation content during the call to an attacker.

Malicious programs could also attempt to initiate calls without the user's knowledge, or to collect and forward information about the telephone calls made and private telephone numbers from the address book.

If a call is initiated by the user, devices set up the connection according to the configured configuration and the dialed telephone number. Manipulation of the configuration or firmware of the device may interfere with the dialing process or even redirect the call to the attacker infrastructure. In this way, the attacker may also be able to cease the subsequent conversation.

If the caller terminates the call, an infected device could preat the signaling of the call end while the connection is being maintained in the background. This connection could be used to listen to the user. If a device is infected with malware, it may also suppress the signaling of incoming calls without the called party noticing. This would mean that the user can no longer be called.

Another potential variant of attack by malware is to activate the microphone of a VoIP terminal unnoticed to record the calls in the room and to transmit via VoIP to the attacker. The effort to program a corresponding malware with such a Funktionalit t is relatively low, because the required VoIP functionality (codec, VoIP protocols) is already implemented on the terminals and can be used by the malware ,

To what extent the risks described actually occur with a device depends on several factors, such as: For example, the type and settings of the operating system, use of shared resources with other applications (such as softphones), and implemented protection mechanisms.

In general, softphones are more vulnerable to attack by malicious programs than hardphones, because softphones are mostly based on widely used operating systems and share resources with other installed applications that may have their own security vulnerabilities. In contrast, hardphones have their own network interface and are usually based on proprietary operating systems whose settings are tailored to the required functionality. Thus, they can usually only be exposed to the attacks of harmful programs that have been developed specifically for such operating systems.

Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



