#G 4.33 Bad or missing authentication methods and mechanisms
Authentication methods and mechanisms can be used to authenticate users or IT components or to determine the data origin. If authentication methods and mechanisms are missing or too poor, there is a risk that

* Unauthorized access to IT systems or data
* the causers of problems can not be identified or
* the origin of data can not be determined.


Security gaps can arise, for example

* in user authentication, when users choose passwords that are easy to guess, or when they never change passwords,
* in component authentication, if, after commissioning an IT system, default passwords are not replaced by individually selected ones, if the passwords entered permanently in many IT systems are never changed again or if the passwords are changed  rter not be deposited securely and turns out after a system crash that the now urgently needed password was forgotten,
* in the choice of procedures, if they are completely unsuitable or if security gaps become known but are not reacted to during operation.


Authentication methods may be insufficient, for example

* they do not allow sufficiently long passwords to be selected,
* the authentication data is encrypted and stored without protection on servers or clients,
* the authentication data is encrypted, transferred
* they can not protect against the re-introduction of messages, and thus give attackers access to a system under the false pretenses of an incorrect identity (see also G 5.24 re-playing messages),
* they are not sufficiently resistant to so-called man-in-the-middle attacks or session hijacking (see G 5.89 Hijacking of network connections). An attacker hangs in an on-going connection, for example, by blocking a login message from the client and using it instead to log in under a different name.


* In SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol), the first two versions, SNMPv1 and SNMPv2, supported only simple authentication methods in which authentication parameters (so-called community strings) were transmitted in plain text. Only after SNMPv3 were the security mechanisms improved. Where the old versions are still used, attackers could use the clear-text authentication parameters and log in without authorization.
* In the IEEE 802.11 wireless standard (Wi-Fi), Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) initially specified an authentication method that offered many options for attacking. With WPA (Wi-Fi Protected Access) or WPA2 (Wi-Fi Protected Access 2) these weaknesses were eliminated. However, there are still Wi-Fi networks that work with OSP and are therefore insufficiently protected against unauthorized access.
* The IEEE802.1X Port Based Network Access Control standard defines the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP). Some of the described EAP methods contain vulnerabilities, e.g. B. should not be used as an authentication method in EAD-MD5 because it is based on the knowledge of an unscrambled password for both sender and receiver.


Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



