#G 4.75 Impact of the network infrastructure of virtualization environments
Several virtualization servers can be combined into a so-called virtual infrastructure. In such a virtual infrastructure, the virtual IT systems can be arbitrarily distributed to the individual virtualization servers. It is also possible to move the virtual machines between the virtualization servers. This can happen with some products even when the virtual IT system is running (examples: Microsoft Hyper-V Live Migration, VMware VMotion, XEN LiveMigration). Such a process, referred to below as live migration, is generally transparent to the virtual IT system, ie. it does not notice this migration process. Additional features of a virtual infrastructure are built on this migration technology. These are functions such. B. dynamic allocation of processor and main memory resources. In this case, the virtual IT system is always migrated to the virtualization server, which can optimally provide the required resources. A virtual IT system always receives the best possible allocation of resources in this way.

There are also virtualization products that compensate for the failure of one virtualization server by automatically restarting them with affected virtual IT systems on another virtualization server.

In order to realize the described technical possibilities, a communication network is needed between the involved virtualization servers for the coordination of these functions (automatic restart, live migration). If there are any problems in this network, the functions coordinated here are also disturbed.

A disruption in communication between virtualization servers can cause a live migration to abort. This may cause dynamic load balancing mechanisms to fail if one virtual machine is to be moved to another target server due to a resource bottleneck. As a result, the unrecoverable resource bottleneck on the source server results in a restriction of the availability of the non-relocatable IT system.

To increase the availability of virtual IT systems, multiple virtualization servers can be clustered together. The systems participating in such a server network require a smooth communication with each other. By means of this communication, the systems monitor each other and, for example, check whether the virtual IT systems running on their partners are still available (heartbeat). If one of the partners in the network fails, the failing IT systems are restarted on another virtualization server, if possible.

If the communication network of the cluster fails, for example due to a hardware error on a switch, the failure compensation function of the cluster is disrupted. The virtual IT systems on the virtualization servers that are members of the cluster may also be in danger of being compromised.

Incidentally, the communication network between the systems involved in the high-availability network also fulfills, in addition to the above-mentioned further important functions: If the communication between several systems of a network is simultaneous, each system must be able to decide whether it is itself or the others Systems affected by the failure (isolation problem). If two or more virtualization servers participating in a high-availability network were to start a virtual IT system in isolation from each other, the data representing this virtual system could be damaged. This makes the virtual IT system unusable. It can also lead to failures if one and the same IT system exists several times in the network (eg by double IP or MAC addresses).



