#G 4.56 Failure of the VoIP architecture
VoIP can be used as an alternative to a circuit-switched PBX. All calls, ie all incoming, outgoing and internal calls, can be handled completely via VoIP. Both the existing and a separately operated data network can be used for communication.

An IP network consists of active and passive network technology. Passive network technology primarily refers to structured cabling. Active network technology includes, for example, hubs, bridges, switches and routers. A failure of one or more components of the active network technology can lead to a complete standstill of the entire IT network. In such a case, the VoIP architecture is also no longer usable if it is handled via the same IT network.

If an attacker has direct access to the LAN, for example by connecting to a switch or via a wireless network, he may be able to terminate existing connections. An example of this is a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) or H.323-initiated TCP connection that ends with an IP packet with the RST flag set.

Using techniques such as flooding, an attacker could overload the data network. This does not only apply to VoIP architectures. Virtually every message stream can be disrupted in this way.

The operation of the VoIP architecture usually requires the use of components for the transmission of telephone calls. Examples include H.323 gatekeepers and SIP registrars. This VoIP middleware can be operated on separate IT systems or dedicated hardware elements. The integration of these devices into IT networks leads to new threats compared to circuit-switched PBXs that require their own cable infrastructure. For example, VoIP components could be compromised over the IP network by worms and thus fail.

In order to be able to use VoIP, the users generally have to log on to a corresponding system, for example a registrar with SIP or a gatekeeper with H.323. Without appropriate security mechanisms, an attacker can de-register a user with spoofed packets (de-registration). As a result, this user is no longer available by phone.

The switching units are a particularly attractive target for attacks, since in the case of failure of such a system many users can no longer make phone calls. For example, if an attacker has physical access to a switch, they can manipulate, damage, or simply disable this centralized architecture. However, even logical attacks on switching units, for example by resetting network connections or deleting important system files, can in some circumstances cause great damage.

This increased vulnerability also applies to VoIP terminals. Many tools have been developed for attacks on networked IT systems whose vulnerability is similar to VoIP devices. These programs can often be used by less experienced attackers. By evaluating various network parameters, such as the response to specific IP packets, the exact type designation of the terminal can be determined for some devices. This information can be used for targeted attacks.

Both the VoIP terminals and the middleware have a high proportion of software. There is therefore a risk that this software has vulnerabilities that can be exploited by attackers. Therefore, VoIP devices may also be susceptible to malware, such as computer viruses or worms.

Availability may also be affected by unforeseen events. Telephones for circuit-switching networks often receive their operating voltage directly via the telephone network. If a PBX for circuit-switched networks is supplied with a local UPS in the event of a power failure, the terminals can continue to draw their operating voltage from it. On the other hand, VoIP terminals generally do not purchase their power from the IT network, but separately. Even if the VoIP system is powered by a UPS, the devices can not be used in the event of a power failure. In addition, a failure of the active network technology leads to the fact that the data network is not functional and thus no more VoIP calls are possible.

Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



