#G 4.31 Failure or malfunction of network components
A failure or malfunction of active network components can lead to a loss of availability of the network or parts of it. In principle, the following variants are conceivable here:

* Total Failure of an Active Network Component The total failure of an active network component can cause all directly connected IT systems (clients, servers, etc.) to no longer communicate with one another. For example, as shown in the following figure, the central switch will pop up 1 completely off, no communication between the connected terminals is any longer possible.




* These are active network components that are not directly connected to the network segments of communicating workstation and server systems, but are located in the signal path between workstation and server systems. If no redundant signal paths are available between the respective workstation and server systems, no or only limited communication between workstation and server systems can take place in the event of a failure or malfunction of one or more of these components. For example: F llt, As shown in the following figure, Switch 1 is completely off, although workstations 1 and 2 can communicate locally with Server 1 ,. However, central services that are offered on server 2, for example, are no longer available for these workstations.




* Partial failure of an active network component If a port of an active network component fails or is interrupted, the network is not available for the terminal connected there.




The failure of a passive network component can also cause the loss of the availability of a network. This applies, for example, to cables and connectors that connect segments. This danger can z. B. if the cables are not installed properly (eg if the maximum bending radius is not adhered to), the cables are incorrectly assembled with connectors (in particular with LWL) or if there is a fault due to electromagnetic incompatibility.



Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



