#G 5.181 Attacks on identity and access management in web services
In order to protect offered web services from abusive access, appropriate access protection mechanisms must be implemented which check the identity of a calling user or service and effectively deny access if the user or service has the authorization to call the service is missing. In this case, the authorization can also be dependent on the transferred parameters: For example, it is conceivable that a customer may only query data for his own orders, or an authorization administrator can only provide employees of his own institution with authorizations.

The first possible starting point for an attacker is the used access protection system itself. If the attacker finds errors in the authorization check, he can exploit them to gain unauthorized access. This is particularly the case if permission checks are not enforced because developers make implicit assumptions about who invokes the services in which context. The fact that a function within an application is only available after successful login does not mean that the underlying web service can not be called by an attacker outside of the application context.

If access control is manipulated within a service-oriented architecture (SOA), attackers can gain unauthorized information about SOA infrastructure services.

If the authorization authentication access protection system uses information from an external source, such as a directory service, an attacker may also attempt to manipulate the authorization information in the external source or to mislead the access protection system with incorrect or manipulated authorization data, for example, by a man -in-the-middle attack (see G 5.143 Man-in-the-Middle attack).

A second point of attack is the identity of the calling user or service. If the attacker succeeds in initiating a service call with the identity of an authorized user or service, he can effectively misuse his privileges for the execution of his attack.

Such identity theft can be made possible, for example, by a weak implementation of session management: session hijacking or session fixation (see G5.169 Insufficient Session Management of Web Applications and Web Services). The goal of a session hijacking attack is to obtain user privileges for a system, service or application. Some web services use a unique identification number for their sessions. If an attacker succeeds in intercepting messages with such a session ID, he can participate in the corresponding transaction.

Other types of attack include recording messages and replaying the recorded messages (with original sender's authenticating information) in a different context (replay attacks). A replay attack reuses messages accepted by a web service. An attacker usually takes valid messages from users and sends them to the web service again. Replay attacks are often used as the basis for further attacks such as denial-of-service or man-in-the-middle attacks. Often they serve attackers to bypass authentication mechanisms. If no protective measures are provided for this purpose, the attacker can intercept even encrypted messages and use them without having to break the encryption used.

Finally, external identity management services used by the web service can also be attacked with the aim of effectively identifying themselves as a legitimate service consumer to the web service. In the absence of mechanisms for service authentication, the attacker can either use his own identity service to the web service or the service consumer and thus either fool the service with a false identity or the legitimate user to reveal authentication data move.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



