#G 5.170 Cross-site scripting (XSS)
Cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks target users of a web application and their clients. An attacker attempts to indirectly send malicious code (typically browser-side executable scripts, such as .JavaScript) to the client user of the web application.

If the inputs and outputs are not sufficiently validated by a web application, an attacker could inject bad code into the web application (eg within a comment on an article) and distribute it. When an infected web page is called by a user, the client (eg browser) executes the inserted malicious code. From the point of view of the user, the malicious code comes from the web application and is thus classified as trustworthy. Therefore, the malicious code is interpreted in the security context of the web application and the attacker is able to execute commands in the context of a possibly existing session of the affected user.

There are three classes of XSS attacks:

* persistent
* reflected (non-persistent)
* DOM-based (local)


The following examples illustrate the differences of the attack classes:

* An attacker succeeds in leaving an entry in a guestbook that contains JavaScript code. If a user calls the corresponding guestbook entry, the script is transmitted and executed by the browser. The script is executed in the security context of the web application and thus has access to the user's SessionID stored in the cookie on the client side, if this session cookie was set (incorrectly) without the HttpOnly flag. This information is passed from the script to the attacker, who can use the SessionID to take over the session of an authenticated user. Since the JavaScript code is only interpreted by the browser and not displayed, this process is difficult to recognize by the user. This is a persistent XSS attack because the malicious code is permanently stored in the guestbook entry and thus in the web application.


* An attacker prefers the GET parameter of a URL so that it contains JavaScript code. Since the web application uses the parameters used to process the website, the injected JavaScript code is transmitted to the client and executed by the browser in the security context of the web application. If the attacker succeeds in distributing such a prepared link (eg by e-mail) and a logged in user clicks on this link, the faulty script is executed in the user's browser. Such an XSS attack is said to be reflected or non-persistent because the malicious code is not stored permanently but is sent back directly from the web application after it has been entered.


* JavaScript code in a web page processes parameters from the URL (such as http: //host.tld/param=content) and integrates them into the web page for display. By manipulating the parameters, any content can be inserted into the website. If the page with malfunctioning JavaScript code is called in the parameter, then this code is integrated into the website and executed by the browser. Unlike previous types of attacks, the malicious code is not inserted by the web application into the web page, but rather locally by the browser through client-side JavaScript processing of the URL parameters. Here, the malicious code can manipulate the Document Object Model (DOM) environment and change the web page structure and content.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



