#G 5.160 Abuse of Bluetooth profiles
Bluetooth provides individual profiles for the standardized exchange of data, transmission of messages or configuration. These profiles may be exploited to access and manipulate Bluetooth terminals and steal or steal data. Some dangers that can be attributed to the misuse of these profiles are described below by way of example.

In order to access another Bluetooth terminal, pairing between the terminals is usually necessary. Part of the pairing is always an authentication. However, the Bluetooth specification provides that access to the Service Discovery Protocol (SDP) is possible even before pairing without proper authentication. With this protocol, the Bluetooth devices exchange the available profiles. In the past, Bluetooth implementations were introduced that had profiles that were not displayed through the SDP. The manufacturers had obviously opened a kind of back door. On the basis of this vulnerability, among other things, individual profiles could be exploited so that data could be exchanged between Bluetooth terminals without prior pairing, ie without authentication.

* For example, an attacker could use the OBEX Push Profile, which is intended for easy data exchange, to read out calendar entries or telephone books. If the terminal also supports an OBEX-based FTP server, the attacker also receives write access to the terminal at the same time.
* Due to the lack of authentication, the HID profile, which is intended for the input of input devices, ie mouse or keyboards, can also be exploited. If the authentication is also omitted here and there is already a successful pairing, for example between a keyboard and a computer, then another input device can be simulated with this information and, for example, keystrokes can be recorded using a keylogger software.


More problematic is the misuse of the SIMAccess profile. With this profile it is possible to directly access the SIM cards of mobile phones via Bluetooth. This profile is typically applied to a built-in car phone that wants to access another phone via Bluetooth. Through this direct access to the SIM card tampering with the mobile connection could be made without the user notice. For example, via the SIM Access Profile, the SIM Application Toolkit, which is implemented in many SIM cards, can be used to send the session key used for encrypting the mobile connection via SMS. With this session key, a recorded communication can be decoded via the radio interface of a mobile phone and thus spied out. Thus, the combination of the two techniques Bluetooth and mobile telephony creates attack scenarios that would not be possible with any technology in their own right.

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



