#G 5.142 Distribution of malicious programs via mobile data carriers
Mobile data carriers are often used for the exchange of data between the home PC and the workstation. However, private computers are not always protected to the extent that meets the security level of the agency or the company. For example, private computers are often used by people who are less aware of information security to access the Internet. A typical example is the use of active-content web pages by children or teenagers to participate in online games or chats.

Due to the often less restrictive configuration and the often less controlled use of the home PC, malicious programs can more easily settle in there and, if necessary, transfer to the workstation via mobile data carriers.

Danger from malicious programs, however, does not only come from private IT systems. At fairs, congresses and similar events, for example, mobile data carriers are frequently used to exchange documents, presentation slides and other information. Again, there is a risk that spread malicious programs on this way.



## Examples 
* MP3 players are often used as mobile data storage because of their high storage capacity, and not just for music files. This can lead to the fact that the mixing of private and official files inadvertently pass on official information to friends and acquaintances. In the process, however, malicious programs can also be introduced into an institution.
* At a congress, a visitor would like to have the slides of the lecture just given and ask the lecturer if he can provide him with the slides. The lecturer gives the visitor his USB stick on which the presentation slides are located. When the visitor has inserted the USB stick into his laptop to copy the slides, unnoticed a malicious program installed on the USB stick installs itself.




