#G 5.162 Redirect X Window Sessions
By separating the X server from the X client in the X Window System, these components can be operated on different IT systems. This allows applications and graphical user interfaces to be executed and displayed on different IT systems. The terminal servers on which the applications are executed are connected by a data connection to the X-terminal on which the input and output devices are connected. The screen contents are generated in the terminal server, but the output is redirected to the X terminal.

As a rule, not only the inputs and outputs, individual instances of the applications or user interfaces can be redirected from the terminal server to the X-terminal, but several instances. For example, the user can open several different graphical user interfaces simultaneously on a terminal server, which he can switch between.

But not only different instances on a terminal server can be redirected to an X terminal, but also an instance on the terminal server can be redirected to different X terminals. If an attacker succeeds in redirecting the screen output not only on the user's X terminal, but also on his own, he can intercept and read the user's input and output.

In addition, it can redirect the graphical user interface or the applications of an attacker-controlled terminal server to the user's X terminal. If the attacker succeeds in fiddling with the work environment and the user does not realize this, he may pass on sensitive information to the attacker. An example of this is the entry of a password, which is not displayed on the screen, but can still be read by the attacker.

Combinations of the above attacks are also possible.



