#G 5.2 Manipulation of information or software
Information or software can be manipulated in many ways: by incorrectly collecting data, changing access rights, changing the content of accounting data or correspondence, changing operating system software, and more. In principle, this not only concerns digital information, but also, for example, paper documents. However, a user can only manipulate the information and software components to which he has access. The more access rights a person has to files and directories of IT systems, the more accessibility information they have, the more severe manipulations they can make. If the manipulations are not detected early enough, the smooth running of business processes and specialist tasks can be severely disrupted.

The motives of torture are manifold, ranging from revenge and wanton desire to destruction to enrichment or other personal benefits.



## Examples 
* In one Swiss financial company, one employee manipulated the application software for certain financial services. This allowed him to illegally collect larger amounts of money.
* Employees who leave the company first copy customer data in order to use it profitably for other purposes. For example, such illegally obtained data from private customers has been used to trick the signing of contracts. Employees who are discouraged to leave a government or a corporation could vandalize information or IT systems or prevent access to critical information or IT systems.
* Manipulation of archived documents can be particularly difficult as they may not be noticed until years later and often can no longer be checked. Archived documents usually represent particularly valuable information. The manipulation of such documents is particularly serious, as it may not be noticed until years later and a check is then often no longer possible.
* One of her employees got annoyed about her boyfriend's bookkeeping in the bookkeeping department, as she gained access to her computer without permission during a short absence of her colleague. Here it has made enormous changes to the published annual results of the company through a few changes in the monthly balance sheet.
* An employee complains that his supervisor has not granted him a salary increase. Out of anger, he sends e-mail to some of his co-workers a document that contains a computer virus and is disguised as a business letter. Opening this document will change different files on the affected systems. One employee complains that his supervisor did not give him a salary increase. In anger, he sends e-mail to some of his co-workers a document that contains a computer virus and is disguised as a business letter. Opening this document will change different files on the affected systems.
* An employee perceives the restrictions of security measures on his smartphone as too restrictive and rootet his smartphone. Unauthorized software, for example, is placed on the device containing malicious software, treats the institution's confidential information and sends it to unauthorized third parties. This creates a lot of economic damage.




