#G 5.135 SPIT and Vishing
The use of VoIP offers many opportunities to obtain information under false pretenses or exploit unskilled users. For example, providers can place unwanted advertisements for their products or services at low cost. SPIT (Spam over IP-Telephone), as well as SPAM, which is very common in e-mail in similar form, cost the recipients time and money. Depending on the frequency, SPIT calls are not only a nuisance, but they may significantly affect the work processes in an institution.

The shipping of SPIT is comparatively favorable for a provider. If a packet-oriented connection to a user can be established via the Internet, the provider will incur no further telephone costs. With a suitably dimensioned Internet connection, he can send numerous promotional offers at the same time.

For example, SPIT can be a voice advertisement. In this case, a recording is played after acceptance of the call. In this way products or services can be advertised. However, SPIT can also be sent with fraudulent intent. An example of this is Vishing.

Vishing (Voice Phishing) is a form of attack to gain personal information from one or more victims. Here, a VoIP-based dialer calls a large number of collected VoIP addresses. When accepting a call, a voice message is played to pretend to the victim that the call comes from a trustworthy institution, such as the bank to which he is a client. During the call, victims are asked to provide information such as bank account numbers, PINs and TANs.



## Examples 
* In one form of vishing, VoIP-based dialers call a large number of collected VoIP addresses. When accepting a call, a voice message is played to pretend to the victim that the call comes from a trustworthy institution, such as the bank to which he is a client. During the call, victims are asked to provide information such as bank account numbers, PINs and TANs.
* In another variant of the attack, fraudsters send e-mails that use well-crafted texts to call a voice box at a specified telephone number. This voice box is then used to query PIN data and other confidential information. This form of attack can be dangerous because it takes the advice of many financial institutions not to respond to alleged emails but to seek out telephone contact.




