#G 5.50 Abuse of the ICMP protocol
The Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) has as a protocol of the transport layer the task to transport error and diagnostic information. By misusing ICMP messages, an attacker could both disrupt network operation and find information about the internal network that would help him plan an attack:

* Through ICMP redirect messages, the routing tables of computers can be manipulated.
* ICMP unreachable messages can be used to interrupt or break existing connections.
* The various ICMP request message types (echo request, information request, timestamp request, address mask request) can be used in a simple way to map the internal network of an organization (ICMP sweeps).
* Also fake ICMP reply messages can be used to find out information about the internal network by getting the target computers to respond with an error message.
* Different operating systems differ in the way they respond to specific ICMP messages. In addition to the information that a specific address is active, ICMP responses can therefore also reveal under which operating system the computer runs (fingerprinting).
* Incorrect implementations of ICMP in some operating systems have in the past led to security problems: computers with Windows 95 could be crashed by certain ICMP echo packets (ping of death). In ICMP response packages of various operating systems could extract from the memory of the be included computer. In extreme cases, passwords or cryptographic keys could be transmitted to an external computer in this way.
* Any type of ICMP message can also be used to create a covert channel of information that can be used to move data out of the internal network.


Status: as of 2005



