#G 5.148 Abuse of virtualization features
Most virtualization products include tools to freeze virtual machines or specific states of virtual machines. These functions are usually based on copying the disk containers of the virtual IT systems or storing the states of the main memory and the processor of the virtual IT system on a mass storage of the virtualization server.

Each virtualization server has access to all of the storage resources of its managed virtual machines. There is therefore a risk that the virtualization server accesses such resources unauthorizedly in order to copy or change data without authorization. Therefore, an attacker can easily make a copy of a virtual machine to unauthorizedly remove it from the data center and, for example, run it on its own virtualization server. He can use the created copy to examine the virtual machine.

Furthermore, an unchanged clone of a virtual machine may result in an IP address or other resource conflict in data center operations if such a clone is not adjusted prior to launch.

With some virtualization products, snapshots of a virtual machine can also be generated during operation. In this case, the processor state and the contents of the main memory are written to a hard disk of the virtualization server. Furthermore, the virtual machine disk container is also frozen and changes are written to a difference file. This data can be copied to create a running virtual machine clone using another virtualization server. The stored contents of the processor state and main memory of the virtual machine may also be used by an attacker to parse virtual machine memory areas. For example, keys from encryption tools stored unscrambled in virtual machine memory can be extracted here.

It is also possible to restore virtual machines to an old state by using snapshots. This may undermine actions taken, for example, to close security gaps.

Resetting a virtual machine to a snapshot may also obscure attacks that would otherwise be recorded in the virtual machine's log files. The state of the virtual machine also resets its log file.

If older snapshots are activated, data that should have been deleted can also be restored. If the virtual IT system is reset to the snapshot, the supposedly deleted data is available again. Also, the use of tools that override the contents of a file several times to make recovery impossible is ineffective if a snapshot has been created before the tool is used within the virtual IT system. If a snapshot has been created for a virtual machine, the overrides only affect the difference file that contains the changes that have occurred since the snapshot was taken. If the snapshot is deleted and the changes in the difference file are applied to the disk container, the seemingly multiple overwrites are written only once to the disk container.



