#G 5.4 theft
The theft of data carriers, IT systems, accessories, software or data incurs reimbursement costs and the restoration of a workable state, as well as losses due to a lack of availability. In addition, damage can result from a loss of confidentiality and the resulting consequences.

In addition to expensive IT systems, mobile devices are often stolen, which are inconspicuous and easy to transport. Especially new smartphones or tablets are popular among thieves as expensive status symbols. Their loss is usually severe because they can be used for many applications (e-mails, Internet, create presentations) and store large amounts of data.



## Examples 
* In the spring of 2000, a notebook from the US Department of State disappeared. An official statement did not exclude that the device might contain confidential information. Neither was it known whether the device was cryptographically or secured by other measures against unauthorized access. Safety investigations had already warned against inadequate controls.
* In a German Federal Office was repeatedly broken through the same unsecured windows. In addition to other valuables, mobileIT systems also disappeared. The fact that files were also copied or manipulated could not be ruled out beyond doubt.
* In the UK, there were a number of data breaches where confidential records were disclosed because data carriers were stolen. In one case, computer hard drives were stolen from the British Air Force. They also contained very personal information that had been collected for safety checks on employees.
* A call center employee made copies of a large amount of confidential customer data just before leaving the company. After leaving the company, he then sold them to competitors. Since details of this were subsequently leaked to the press, the call center lost many important customers.




