#G 5.182 Manipulation of Routes (Routing Detours)
SOAP messages can contain information about the route through which the message is to pass using the WS-Routing or WS-Addressing standard. As a result, for example, communication flows can be mapped, as well as business processes, for example, by successively forwarding an order message to various services (availability check, payment, order). When WS routing is used, the message already contains the entire sequence of destination addresses, with WS addressing only the next receiver.

If an attacker succeeds in manipulating the SOAP messages during transmission or transmission using a man-in-the-middle attack (see also G 5.143 Man-in-the-Middle attack) In addition to a change in the message content, the embedded routing information is also changed. This gives the attacker control over the further processing of the message. Possible attacks on this path are:

* The attacker can extend the route of the SOAP message with additional systems under his own control. If WS Routing is used, it may even be possible to play the message back to the attacker after being processed by one of the intended services. For example, he could reduce a price, direct the message to the pay-service, and from there back to his own system, which disables the manipulation before the message is passed on to the downstream services.
* The attacker can prevent the transmission of the SOAP message to intended services. For example, the payment process or an intermediate test step can be omitted by sending the message directly to the next scheduled service.
* The attacker can change the order or sequence of services to which the message is transmitted. Depending on the logic of the application architecture, this can have effects that are exploited by the attacker in his favor.
* The attacker can introduce invalid addresses into the route and thereby suppress messages or cause errors (Denial of Service).


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



