#G 5.197 Abuse of SAML tokens in SOA environments
When a client accesses from an information domain A to a service provider in an information domain B, on the one hand, it must be checked whether the respective client is authorized to access this remote resource. On the other hand, the addressed provider must independently check whether this remote access can be accepted.

Once the permission is established, the communication uses a Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) token that allows access. A SAML token can be issued both by the security token service (STS) of the domain A and the domain B.

Two models of the SAML token allocation are available here:

* Modified model: The client of the domain A requests a SAML token for the defined service provider of the domain B from its local STS provider. The domain A domain provider has the required knowledge about the provider of the domain Bne B and therefore can issue a SAML token for both.
* Enterprise model: Here, only the TSS provider of domain B also has the necessary knowledge about the requested service provider of domain B. In this case, the TS provider of domain A contacts the domain's TSS provider ne B and deals with this theSAML token, which then transmits the respective STS provider to its client (or provider).


In the first case, all instances trust the STS provider of the calling domain, in the second case the instances of a domain only trust their local STS provider. The STS providers then negotiate in parallel.

The danger is generally that a trust relationship has to be established across domain boundaries. The possibility of intervening in building up this trust relationship means that SAML tokens may possibly be issued without authorization without the relevant communication authorities being aware of this.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



