#G 5.133 Unauthorized use of web-based administration tools
Administration using web browser-based tools has become increasingly important. One of the decisive advantages for the technically responsible personnel is the independence of

* the operating system platform of the IT system to be maintained
* the location of the IT system to be maintained.


Common to all tools is that they use critical credentials. They rely on common Internet-based authentication methods to give authorized technical personnel access to critical local systems. Many administration tools also have their own authentication mechanisms or use local, partly non-standardized authentication and security mechanisms. There is a risk of being compromised by unauthorized users.

A high degree of danger arises when the security policy for authentication in the network or its implementation in the considered information network is undermined by inappropriate authentication procedures for web-based administration tools. The most common causes of this are:

* The choice of a wrong or outdated authentication method, because the respective tool does not support stronger authentication or because other involved IT systems (eg security gateways) do not support the favored protocol
* the inappropriate implementation or adoption of the web-based authentication in the local authentication system.


A danger can z. B. if the Windows Internet Information Services component is activated for the purpose of using Web-based administration aids without configuring it according to the recommendations. A danger could then be that only weaker authentication methods are activated in the standard configuration. It should be noted that poor configuration poses a major risk to all Web-based administration solutions available on the market.

Stand: 11th EL Stand 2009



