#G 5.143 Man-in-the-middle attack
The goal of a man-in-the-middle attack is to creep unnoticed into a communication between two or more partners, for example, to read or manipulate information. Here, the attacker goes into the middle of communication by posing as a receiver towards the sender and as a sender toward the receiver. First, the attacker initiates a connection request from the sender. In the next step, the attacker establishes a connection to the actual recipient of the message. If he succeeds, the attacker may be able to see or manipulate all the information that the sender sends to the presumed recipient before forwarding it to the right recipient. The attacker can also access the replies of the recipient if appropriate protection mechanisms are not effective.

The most difficult part of a man-in-the-middle attack for the attacker is often to redirect the connection setup to itself. Through appropriate procedures, such as spoofing or DNA manipulation, this attack can be initiated.

Even an encrypted connection does not always protect against man-in-the-middle attacks. If the identity of the communication partners is falsified or not checked, an encrypted connection could be established from the sender to the attacker and from the attacker to the recipient. In this case, since the attacker is the endpoint of the individual connections, he can decrypt, view and change the information before encrypting and forwarding it again.

A special form of man-in-the-middle attack is malicious morphing. The attacker modifies the content or structure of a message and can thus endanger the integrity of data as well as the functioning of system components at the service provider, for example through a denial-of-service attack.



## Examples 
* An attacker succeeds by DNS spoofing to manipulate some name servers so that the IP address of his computer instead of the IP address of a particular bank is returned in DNS queries. A user would then like to connect to the bank's web server to use home banking. In order to determine the IP address of the web server for establishing the connection, the user's computer sends a request with the computer name of the bank to the DNS server, which, however, replies with the falsified IP address of the attacker. Then, based on the fake IP address, the user establishes a HTTPS connection to the attacker's computer. Although the browser displays warnings that the SSL certificate is invalid, the user ignores these hints because he does not understand them. As a result, the user is redirected to the web server of the attacker. The attacker then builds an encrypted https connection to the bank. All transactions that the user makes in the subsequent web session can be viewed and manipulated by the attacker.
* In order to perform man-in-the-middle attacks in a WLAN, additional access points could be introduced into the WLAN (cloning or evil twin). If such an access point offers a nearby wireless client a higher transmit power than the real access point, the client will use it as the base station if two-sided authentication is not enforced.




