#G 5.199 Insufficient protection of SOAP communication
Web services are basically stateless. The Web Services Resource Framework (WSRF) describes how stateful resources can be queried, modified, and represented. The resource information itself is mapped in a token and thus transparently sent by the provider to the client.

If the resource state is to be detected, however, this usually takes place outside the secured environment, so that here the information must pass through a transition of different classification levels. Attackers can manipulate a parameter value when transitioning to a higher classification level without this being recognized.

As a variant for SOAP communication, the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) allows connectionless operation. Instead of using SOAPwithHTTP / TCP, nowSOAPwithUDP can be used directly. This operating case is stateless, it is not acknowledged at the transport level. If a sequence counter is introduced, for example with SOAP / UDP with WS-Policy, nothing changes in this stateless operation. Here only the correct packet order is restored correctly, but no connection control is performed. There is a risk that messages will be forwarded to unauthorized recipients. Without sequence counters, there is also the risk of replay attacks.

The connection control is therefore the responsibility of the application that uses SOAP communication. As long as the connection is not actively terminated, it uses computer resources on the send and receive side for this purpose.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



