#G 5.177 Abuse of short URLs or QR codes
Web pages are usually accessed via a URL (Uniform Resource Locator), which is therefore also called web address. The complexity of many websites often leads to relatively long web addresses, which are difficult to remember and, above all, can not be displayed in one line in mobile terminals such as smartphones. Therefore, various methods have been developed to make it easier for users to use web addresses. Prominent representatives are short URLs and QR codes.



## Examples 
* Availability: Short URLs are resolved via the database of a service provider into the original web address stored there without the user having to intervene. This database with the associations between the short and long URLs must be available. Large databases have billions of entries. If the database fills temporarily or permanently, billions of short URLs are unusable. Furthermore, it may be that the previous provider of a service changes the terms of use, so that the generated short URLs can no longer be used without further ado.
* Privacy: By using short URLs, the service provider can track which IP address accessed which page.
* Integrity: A short URL does not show where it is pointing. Therefore, short URLs are attractive to all forms of attacks, where users should be lured to manipulated websites. For example, if a fake e-mail address of a known sender that contains a short URL, there is a greater chance that the link is really clicked. Furthermore, the database of the provider of the short URL may have been manipulated so that the short URLs no longer refer to their actual destination.




