#G 5.183 Attacks on XML
Web services often use XML as the basis for their message format. As a result, all incoming messages are first passed to an XML parser, which evaluates the XML structures and extracts the contained data for processing by the Web service.

The XML parser is usefully not redeveloped for every web service, but integrated as a finished third party component. Such XML parsers offer a range of functions that often goes beyond the parser functions actually required by the web service. However, this also increases the attack surface of the web service. Again and again found in the XML parsers used vulnerabilities that can be exploited by the appropriate design of XML entries an attacker. In particular, weak points due to unused parser functions are often overlooked or underestimated in their significance.

Since XML documents can be very complex, resource consumption for XML parsing may increase accordingly. This can exploit attackers by shaping XML structures (nesting, recursion, external references) in such a way that they specifically increase the resource consumption of the parser and thereby bring the processing system to its load limits.

Several types of attacks are known, based on the design of specific XML messages to achieve the target:

Coercive parsing

In coercive parsing, the attacker overloads the deployed XML parser by sending as input a very large or unlimited number of opening tags for XML elements. If the parser does not have an abort criterion for processing, it occupies new memory at a new nesting level for each newly opened element until the available resources are exhausted.

XML Entity Expansion (XMLBomb)

In this attack, strong nesting or recursion of entity definitions with very short XML documents describes very large data structures. XML parsers that do not recognize this type of attack and prevent a meaningful termination criterion construct the .XML document when evaluating the .XML document described data structure in memory. The attacker can thereby completely block the existing system resources with very little effort. Variants of this attack make use of external references and thus prove additional resources for their dissolution.

XMLDocument Size

The attacker sends a long document to the web service to bring the XML parser to exhaust the existing system resources.

OversizedXML

In this attack variant, the attacker exploits the fact that the standard does not provide length constraints on XML components such as element names, attribute names, or namespaces, and attempts to crash the XML parser by overriding these components bring.

XML Document Width / XML Document Depth

This attack also targets the use of system resources by the parser, but in this case by a  bergro e number of attributes (Width) or nesting levels (depth) and thus the allocation of  bergro er memory amounts.

XML Wellformedness

It is also possible to attack XML parsers via deliberate errors in the XML structure. These can be, for example, overlapping or non-closed XML elements. Depending on the implementation, this can cause error conditions in the parser, which may not be handled properly.

XML Schema poisoning

XML schemas are used to verify the conformance of XML data to the expected structures. If the attacker succeeds in manipulating externally referenced schemes or by replacing them with his own, he may be able to use the web service to invalidate tests of the transferred data and thus embed defective components.

XMLExternal Entities / XMLExternal References

XML documents may contain references to external documents or entities that are automatically resolved by the parser as the XML document processes the XML parser, which the parser reloads and evaluates the external resource. This allows the attacker to cause the parser system to initiate connections to the specified URLs. In addition to denial-of-service attacks by reloading oversized or unreachable documents, the attacker can also exploit this, for example, to override security gateways in which the parser system initiates connections from its own network environment. For example, other web services in a DMZ that are not directly accessible from outside can be addressed in this way.

If the attacker succeeds in changing the content of externally stored resources, he can also indirectly attack the web service if, within the scope of a legitimate call by another user, the server manipulates the manipulated resources including the malicious contents of the attacker.

XML Signature Wrapping

XML signatures ensure the integrity and / or authenticity of XML documents by forming cryptographic checksums over elements identified by a corresponding reference in the signature. The signature ensures only the referenced element, regardless of its inclusion in the XML context. An attacker can therefore ensure that the element secured by the signature remains unchanged in itself, but is not or not evaluated by the parser in the intended form, because, for example, further changes are made to the XML document structure , like elements with manipulated content at a higher level are introduced into the XML structure. The signature check then continues to produce a positive result, even though the web service processes manipulated content.

The attack types listed here are just examples, numerous other attacks are known or newly developed, but based on the same or very similar attack principles.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



