#G 5.152 DNS hijacking
DNS hijacking is an attacking method used to direct communication between AdvertisingDNS servers and resolvers through an attacker's IT system. So this is a man-in-the-middle attack. The communication is not conducted directly between the two communication partners, but is conducted via a third party.

The attacker has the opportunity to monitor and record the communication. The far greater danger, however, is that a successful attacker can arbitrarily change any traffic between the two communication partners. An attacker can thus:

* Discard packets,
* Modify and forward packets or
* send your own response packages.


If, after a successful DNS hijacking attack, a request is sent to a DNS server by the resolver of a client IT system, regardless of whether it is an advertising or a resolving DNS server, the attacker can, for example, allocate Change name and IP address according to your wishes.

DNS hijacking can also be combined with other attacks, especially phishing in this case. In phishing (derived from password and fishing), users are elicited passwords or similar information (see, for example, G .5.42 Social Engineering and G 5.78 DNS Spoofing) to resell this data or for their own benefit use.



## Examples 
* A company operates a webshop and a customer wants to shop there. An attacker succeeds in directing all DNS traffic of the customer and the company over him. The customer enters the domain name of the webshop in his browser. Normally, in the background, the name is automatically resolved to the corresponding IP address. But now that the attacker is in between, he discards the DNS request and sends his own response packet. He swaps the assignment of IP address and name so that the customer does not get to the web shop of the company, but to the web shop of the attacker. The webshop of the attacker is an optical replica of the webshop of the desired company, thus the customer does not notice any difference. He enters his login details and after purchasing his credit card number, which he has thus betrayed the attacker. As a result, the attacker may use the data to make purchases at the expense of the customer, or resell the data received.




