#G 5.179 Attacks on logs
Within a service-oriented architecture (SOA), different protocols for message and data exchange can be used. Not all protocols provide sufficient security mechanisms to ensure the confidentiality and integrity of the transmitted information and the authenticity of the communication partners.

For example, when using HTTP without an additional layer of security (such as SSL / TLS), the transmitted information can be read in the network and, if necessary, even changed. The security of a web service is thus dependent on the security of the communication protocols used or supported.

Special care should also be taken when using proprietary or self-developed communication protocols. The danger of implementation errors that can be exploited by an attacker is high here compared to established, published protocols.

If cryptographically secured protocols are used, the protective effect depends on the crypto procedures, key sequences and the implementation of the protocols. Thus, the use of SSL / TLS can only offer low protection when using outdated versions of the standard or when using weak cryptographic methods.

A common protocol used for the communication of web services is SOAP, which is based on the transmission of XML messages, usually perHTTP. Missing security mechanisms of HTTP or the used transmission protocol must be replaced by appropriate structures in XML, in particular XML signatures, XML encryption and authentication tokens. Otherwise, threats include attacks such as listening to or deleting message content, manipulating parameters during service calls via SOAP or injection attacks.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



