#G 5.86 Manipulation of management parameters
Management systems can also be used to deliberately attack a local computer system by deliberately causing misconfiguration. The misconfigurations can thereby be brought about in various ways. Manipulations are possible both on the management platform and on the managed devices. In particular, network management systems that use SNMP are vulnerable to attacks that deliberately misconfigure management parameters (eg, through their own SNMP client). Depending on the parameters that can be set, the attacks range from simple denial-of-service attacks (eg by adjusting IP addresses) to data modifications (eg after adjusting access rights).

If network components are managed by a management system, all configuration parameters managed by the management system should only be changed by the management system. Depending on the management system, however, it is still possible to locally change the configuration parameters of the component. If a PC z. B. Managed via SNMP by a network management system, a local user with a local SNMP client program (with knowledge of the SNMP password) or via a local operating element (eg with a printer) can change the settings change. This leads u. U. at least inconsistencies in the network management system, but can also be used deliberately to bring about security holes. For example, retrieving shared directories via SNMP over the network for a Windows computer could later be made possible.

Status: as of 2005



