#G 5.103 Abuse of webmail
If user information is not sufficiently verified, an attacker can get an e-mail address in the name of another person and thus z. Spammails or insults under this name undermine their reputation. If the e-mail addresses can be freely chosen by a provider, an attacker can choose an address that other users use to associate certain associations, thereby inciting them to act carelessly.

For many webmail providers, the username for accessing the mailboxes is the same as the email address or can be easily derived from it. If then the password has not been chosen well enough or any number of incorrect entries are possible, an attacker can easily get the password out and then has free access to the user account.

By misunderstood user-friendliness, it is sometimes made very easy for potential attackers to get a password and thus full access to a foreign mailbox. A typical example is a mail provider who already forgot a link password on the homepage? which will then be redirected to a page asking for a previously agreed, not difficult to guess, statement from the mailbox holder. Popular here is the date of birth, in whose guess also by information such as The month is not helped correctly.



## Examples 
* In the example in G 5.40 Listening to rooms using a computer with a microphone and a camera, it is described how a German politician in a false virus warning was asked by e-mail to open a protection program sent as an attachment, but which contained a Trojan horse. This e-mail had the sender support@xyz.de and came from the domain of their e-mail provider XYZ. An e-mail from a sender she had deemed unknown would probably not have opened.
* The webmail offer Hotmail has already become known several times. In particular, javascript embedded in e-mails leads to problems, which is then executed when reading the e-mail in the browser of the recipient. This allows the user to be prompted by an attacker, for example, to re-enter his password and this is subsequently transmitted to the attacker. Since Javascript can be embedded in HTML-formatted emails in several different ways, there have been gaps in the past in filtering out these active contents.




