#G 5.96 Manipulation of mobile phones
The installation of additional electronic circuits, as mentioned in G5.95 Listening to room calls via mobile phones, is a typical hardware manipulation. For this manipulation to be carried out, the device to be manipulated must be in the possession of the attacker for a certain period of time.

However, devices can make mobile phones or smartphones usable for interceptions by manipulating the device-internal control software (firmware) or an application. Such manipulations are usually far harder to detect than hardware manipulations.

A hidden, undocumented monitoring function could already be programmed into the control software during the development of the device (consciously or unconsciously)

It is also conceivable, however, a subsequent change of the control software by a third party, for. B. if the device is not controllable (temporarily) for repair or for any other reason (loss, theft). However, the manipulation requires in-depth specialized knowledge, which apart from the firmware developers is only accessible to a few attackers. For outsiders, this manipulation is practically undetectable.

By extending the menu functions of mobile phones with the help of the SIM toolkit and a new generation of SIM cards that support this functionality, mobile phones are becoming even more flexible. A mobile phone equipped in this way can be programmed by the service provider with new functions via mobile radio. For example, the card provider can tailor the menu structure to the needs of a customer.

This entails even more the danger of firmware manipulation, since functions can already be included as standard in the firmware, which are also necessary for the conversion as a siren. The likelihood increases that functions can be called from the outside, which transform the mobile phone into a ringer. It is also conceivable that these functions can be switched on and off.

With smartphones attackers manipulate the applications rather than the firmware, as this is much easier. Because many applications have generously granted rights over the interfaces of the smartphone. For example, they are constantly connected to the Internet and may be recording environmental noise. An attacker can start this function unnoticed via the Internet and thus execute a trivial attack with almost no risk. In addition, the monitoring function can be activated on an event-based basis. At a certain time, when the mobile is at a certain location or when a call is being made. Also, regular applications can be manipulated by weak points for attackers from the Internet, so that they can be used to intercept space calls and protect confidential data.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



