#G 5.71 Confidentiality loss of valuable information
Confidentiality is the requirement that information may only be made accessible to persons authorized to be informed. In addition to integrity and availability, confidentiality is one of the core values ??of information security.

There is an inherent risk that confidentiality may be caused by technical failure, inadvertence or even through information that requires confidentiality (such as passwords, personal data, company or confidential information, development data) preventive actions are impaired.

In this case, this confidential information can be accessed at different locations, for example

* on storage media within computers (hard disks),
* on exchangeable storage media (USB sticks, CDs or DVDs),
* in printed form on paper (printouts, files),
* exploiting vulnerabilities or deliberately built-in backdoors in application software or operating systems,
* through the misuse of remote maintenance mechanisms and
* on transmission paths during data transmission.


Also, the way in which the confidential information is obtained can be very different, for example:

* Reading files,
* Copying files,
* Restoring backup data,
* Theft of the data medium and subsequent evaluation,
* Listening to transmission lines,
* Infection with malware,
* Reading on the screen,
* Spying on data by maintenance or external personnel,
* Disclosure of data by an IT service provider.


If information is read or disclosed unauthorized, it can have serious consequences for an institution. Among other things, the loss of confidentiality can have the following negative effects for an institution:

* Violation  against laws, for example data protection, banking secrecy
* Competitive disadvantages through disclosure of business secrets such as customer lists, pricing strategies or design plans
* Negative internal impact, for example demoralization of employees
* Negative external impact, for example, impairment of relationships with business partners, lost customer confidence
* Financial implications, for example claims for damages, fines, legal costs
* Impairment of the right to informational self-determination


It should also be noted that a loss of confidentiality is not always noticed immediately. Often, it only becomes apparent later that unauthorized persons have gained access to confidential information, resulting in damage.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



