#G 5.18 Systematic testing of passwords
Too easy passwords can be found out by systematic trial and error. A distinction must be made between the simple testing of all possible character combinations up to a certain length (so-called brute-force attack) and the trial and error on the basis of a list of character combinations (so-called dictionary attack). Both approaches can also be combined.

Most operating systems have a file or database (for example, the .passwd orshadow file on Unix or the RACF database on / OS) with the users' passwords and passwords. However, at least the passwords for many operating systems are not stored in plain text, but cryptographic mechanisms are used. If the file is inadequately protected against unauthorized access, an attacker may be able to copy the file and suspend a brute force attack with more powerful machines and no access time restrictions.

The time it takes to find a password in a brute-force attack depends on

* the duration of a single password check,
* the length of the password and
* the complexity of the password.


The duration of a single password check depends heavily on the particular system and its processing or transmission speed. In the case of an attack, the attacker's method and technique also play a role.

The use of Rainbow Tables can significantly reduce the time required for computation. In Rainbow Tables, passwords in contiguous password sequences are concatenated by a hash function and additional functions. If no appropriate countermeasures have been taken in implementing the password check, attackers' Rainbow Tables can be abused to speed brute force attacks.

The length and character composition of the password, on the other hand, can be influenced by organizational requirements or even by technical measures.

Example:

* For a character set of 26 characters, for example, if only lower case letters without special characters are used for passwords, the result for an eight-character password is approximately 209 billion possible combinations. A modern PC, which can calculate about 100 million hashes per second, would have checked all possible passwords with eight lower-case letters after 35 minutes. By using special characters, uppercase letters and numbers, the number of usable characters increases to 72. With 8-digit passwords, 722 trillion combinations would be possible. To calculate all hash values ??using commercially available PCs, it would take about 83 days.


Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



