#G 5.163 Attacks on Exchange systems
The information stored in the databases of a Microsoft Exchange server can also be provided for mobile access from the Internet. The local mailbox stores of an Exchange server are usually located inside the operator's premises and must be protected by appropriate security measures so that an attacker can not, or can not, access the Microsoft Exchange server itself without permission is to penetrate the internal network.

Here are a few problem areas and potential security gaps that must be considered, especially when accessing the Microsoft Exchange system from the Internet for public access:

* There are many known vulnerabilities in Microsoft Exchange's Remote Procedure Call (RPC) communication protocol. Even with already optimized configuration, a residual risk must be expected.
* A Microsoft Exchange system is very complex. A combination of Exchange servers and Outlook clients further increases the complexity. The complexity (including the security-relevant settings) can lead to misconfiguration and thus also to security gaps.
* Due to the large scope of functions of a Microsoft Exchange system and the possible integration into corresponding background systems, such as unified messaging, content management and enterprise resource planning systems, security gaps may be reduced Can affect a background server from a server. It usually suffices to exploit a single vulnerability in a single function package. Examples:
* With Outlook Web Access, an attacker can perform a denial of service attack over the network by sending a compromised URL to the server, causing the affected components to crash with a memory overflow.
* An attacker could crash an Exchange server by manipulating a command under SMTP. The Exchange server is crashed by a malicious command under SMTP or an attacker can execute arbitrary code.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



