#G 5.136 Abuse of freely accessible telephone lines
Frequently, telephones are operated that are not personally assigned to a user. Some of these phones, such as those in printer rooms, are only accessible to a limited number of people. However, telephones are often found in parkhouses, in front of access control systems or in areas accessible to visitors.

If these telephones have an electronic telephone book in which internal telephone numbers are stored, then there is the danger that such internal telephone numbers will unintentionally come out.

When using VoIP telephones in freely accessible areas, further aspects must be considered. VoIP phones have a high proportion of software and are often operated in data networks that are also used for other IT applications. An attacker could therefore try to take advantage of the direct access to the device vulnerabilities in the VoIP software or install even harmful software. Especially with softphones, there is also the danger that an attacker tries to gain access to the terminal or other IT systems in the same network, for example, using a bootable CD-ROM administrator.

VoIP telephones must be connected to a data network. An attacker could connect a portable computer to this power outlet, potentially accessing the network protected from the outside by a firewall. He may use this access for attacks on confidentiality, integrity and availability. Also, an inside could try to abuse these connections without the attacks originating from his workstation and this will be logged.

Status: as of 2006



