#G 5.198 Abuse of the WS-Notification Broker in an SOA
A NotificationBroker receives a Subscription for a NotificationConsumer, which was initiated by a proxy. Thus, there is the danger of a denial of service (DoS) attack on a known address in that the broker sends many messages (notifications) to the given address.

Anyone can initiate an operation on an interface, provided that they are working with a valid policy (see G 5.183 Attacks on XML). In a subscription, the destination address is specified for the consumer. If the subscriber is also the recipient of a message, a peer-to-peer relationship is established.

To access information, WS-Notification standards support the publish / subscribe process.

If a NotificationBroker is used, the case may arise that, in addition to brokers in the own information domain, also those from other domains are used.

Information that a service provider passes on to brokers in another domain, however, is no longer subject to the administrative control of their own domain. Without protection of the information to be distributed, there is the danger that unauthorized notification consumers under a foreign policy will gain access to this information.

NotificationConsumers can sign up for specific topics (topics). If the NotificationBroker distributes messages (notifications) with these topics to the recipient group, it can group the relevant NotificationConsumers via their IP address and send the relevant notifications to this group (one-way notification).

If different consumers are mapped to a common group address, this poses risks, since multicast addressing in the Internet is an anonymous group whose control and replication mechanisms are neither under the administration of the broker nor the consumer.

Logging on to a group and sending notifications to a group can be supported by a policy. However, if the policy needs to be enforced in a group communication, the risk of peer-to-peer communication increases: By accessing a multicast provider, an attacker can plug into the flow of information without undergoing the required authentication at the broker for example, at a Sparse Mode Rendezvous Point (RP) on the net.

If a NotificationConsumer logs on for a particular topic, the NotificationBroker informs the user of this information via one-way notification, in accordance with the local guidelines (policies) for the broker.

However, a broker may lose a subscription. B.when this is deleted automatically, technically or deliberately manually. It is not clear to the consumer whether he will not receive a publication because there are no messages in the broker or because no subscription is defined anymore. There is currently no protocol means to check the status of a once established subscription.

The polluter (producer) is responsible for the protection of the content of a WS-Notification and the correct classification. Since the possible recipient circle of this WS-Notification is not known in advance, no user certificate of the recipient can be used.

As an alternative, an attribute certificate can be used. However, this raises the problem of how the private key share can be distributed to the authorized recipient. This vulnerability becomes even more complex if the WS-Notification in question is distributed over more than one information domain. In particular, there is a risk that the ownership of such a private key share does not say anything about its entitlement to use it.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



