#G 5.130 Manipulating the configuration of a storage solution
Central storage solutions concentrate a large number of important data of an institution. As a rule, therefore, special safety requirements arise for them, which must be taken into account in the context of a careful configuration.

If an attacker succeeds in gaining passwords that allow access to configuration programs (element managers) of the storage solution, he can bypass a variety of security and control measures.

If a rights and roles concept is missing in such a case, or if this is not sufficiently implemented, the attacker has the opportunity to change the configuration of the storage solution. The following describes how the manipulation affects certain configuration parameters.

* The configuration changes affect the settings of the zone. As a result, it is possible to register additional components in the FC network that originally did not have the required access rights.
* If an attacker manipulates the configuration of the zoning, he is able to change the access paths between servers and storage resources. This allows him to gain unauthorized access to information or restrict the access rights for other users.
* If an attacker tampered with the LUN configuration, he would be able to access memory resources that were not available to him in advance.
* WWN spoofing (see G 5.186 Access to information from other clients through WWN spoofing)


As a result of unauthorized manipulation and configuration changes, it can no longer be guaranteed that the security requirements for the storage solution will be met. Unauthorized access to memory resources or the manipulation of data is possible.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



