#G 5.146 Confidentiality loss through paging files
For applications to be executed by the processor of an IT system, they must be completely or partially copied to the main memory. Modern operating systems are multitasking capable, allowing multiple applications to run concurrently. It is often not sufficient, especially with extensive applications of the existing memory. Therefore, in many operating systems, the currently unused portion of memory is swapped to disk.

These swaps are referred to as swap files or swap partition, where the term swap file is primarily defined by the Microsoft Windows operating system. The operating system independently manages the paging file and adapts it dynamically to the size of the required memory. If the execution of a process requires more storage space, the paging file will become larger. As soon as less disk space is needed, for example because applications are being shut down, the paging file shrinks again. Setting the paging file size in advance can speed up working with Windows, especially with low memory.

If a user logs off the system or the system is switched off, the paging files are not automatically deleted. As a result, the paging file retrieves pieces of information that users have used while working with the IT system. This can include sensitive data such as passwords or cryptographic keys. The protection of the data is therefore not guaranteed, since these z. BB. bypassing all access controls can be read when the hard drive is removed and installed in another computer.



