#G 5.147 Unauthorized reading or interrupting the virtualization network
The operation of a virtual infrastructure requires a variety of network connections. These connections are used to access storage networks. Furthermore, connections between the individual virtualization servers are required to enable the control and monitoring of the virtualization servers and the virtual IT systems. High availability features or the so-called live migration (moving virtual IT systems between virtualization servers during operation) also require network connections. These network connections are referred to below as a virtualization network.

Within a virtual infrastructure, individual virtual IT systems can be transferred between virtualization servers (live migration). This happens. B. for load distribution, maintenance or failure compensation. The processor state and the main memory content as well as the configuration data of the virtual IT system must be transferred from one virtualization server to the other. This transmission takes place through the so-called virtualization network. The transmission protocols used by the manufacturers of the virtualization solutions often do not provide encryption mechanisms for this data stream. This makes it possible for people who gain unauthorized access to the virtualization network, confidential content of the transferred guest systems such. read the main memory content. For example, confidential data contained in the main memory, which otherwise are transmitted only encrypted by the network, can also be read and possibly even changed. If the virtualization servers use a central storage network, the possible compromise also affects the contents of the connected storage network (see also G5.129 Manipulation of data via the storage system and G5.5.7 Monitoring of lines and G5.5.8 Manipulation of lines).

A manipulated virtualization server can also disrupt the virtualization network by allowing the attacker to access the information transmitted over the network and suppress or modify network packets. For example, it may be that changes to the main memory contents of a virtual IT system are not verified during their transmission during a live migration through the virtualization server. Thus, main memory contents of a guest system could be changed by an attacker.

If communication in the virtualization network is disrupted, migrations during operation can fail. This can lead to resource bottlenecks in the virtual infrastructure if these migrations were triggered in order to prevent these bottlenecks.



