#G 5.117 Disguise tampering on z / OS
Changes to log files or deactivation of logging functions may obscure manipulation of the z / OS system.

Most components of the z / OS system generate logging information about system activity and events. These are regularly unloaded and stored in appropriate log files (eg system log, SMF data sets), which can later be evaluated.

Log files are changeable or manipulable if there is a corresponding access right to the file. This may, for example, have been inadvertently assigned by administrators in case of system administration, or an attacker has obtained this access right, for example through appropriate manipulations.

Another potential attack on system logging is to prevent the generation of log data by appropriate manipulation of the generating component. For example, in z / OS, which SMF data sets are written is entered in a configuration member. Making changes to this member or setting exits means that certain SMF records can no longer be written. The usual safety monitors are unable to detect and report suppressed phrases when no SMF phrases or system messages are being written.



## Examples 
* In a data center, a user managed to stop writing SMF data sets. Then he made certain manipulations and then turned the SMF function on again. The changes made to the z / OS system during this period could not be reconstructed later because the protocol data was missing. It could only be demonstrated in the system log that the commands were entered from an MVS console that was available to several people.




