#G 5.161 Felt replies to XDMCP broadcasts on terminal servers
Often found on Unix systems, the X Window System is an application for displaying windows on the screen and for reading keyboard and screen inputs. Only in conjunction with a graphical user interface, such as KDE or Gnome, users can intuitively operate Unix systems without command input from the command line.

The X Window System consists of an X server and an X client. The X server receives signals from the input devices, such as the mouse and keyboard, and outputs information to the output devices, such as screens. The X-Client is the actual application that processes the inputs and outputs of the X-Server and forwards them to the respective applications. The X client communicates with the X server, processes the signals, and executes the commands. The X-Client and the X-Server can be located on an IT system, but both components can communicate with each other via a network connection. For this, the X server is installed on the workstation PCs to which input and output devices are connected and the X client is installed on a central terminal server. An IT system that has only one X server but no X clients or other applications installed is called an X terminal.



## Examples 
* DirectIm Direct mode specifies the hostname or IP address of the XDM in its configuration to the X terminal. After starting the terminal or terminal emulation, the client connects to the XDM and displays a login window.
* IndirectIf you use the Indirect mode, you also connect to a dedicated host. In the first step, this provides a list of possible XDMs which can subsequently be selected by the user via a menu of the so-called Chooser.
* Broadcast If a broadcast message is sent to the network by the terminal, appropriately configured XDM signal their readiness. As a result, terminals connect to the first answering host or offer the user the choice of server via the chooser.




