#G 5.137 Evaluation of connection data in wireless communication
In wireless communication, the transmitted signals on the radio link can not be physically shielded against unauthorized listening and recording. Therefore, an attacker could carry out his attack without the access problem known in wireline communication. In radio networks with several base stations to supply large areas, such as. Cellular cellular networks, it is also common that the approximate location of the mobile terminals is determined in order to ensure their rapid accessibility. If they set up a connection themselves, they also provide information about their location during connection setup. This location information could be used by the network operator or service operator - but also by third parties - to create motion profiles.



## Examples 
* For WLANs based on IEEE 802.11, the hardware address of a WLAN card, the so-called MAC address, is sent with every data transfer. This makes it possible to establish a clear relationship between the MAC address of the wireless client, location and time of the data transmission. In this way, motion profiles could be created via mobile users, eg. For example, when they sign up for public hotspots. Since this MAC address is transmitted unencrypted, the creation of motion profiles is by no means only possible for the operators of the hotspots. In principle, anyone who installs a wireless LAN component in suitable public places can read the MAC addresses of other users.
* The radio traffic of Bluetooth connections can be passively received and recorded using Bluetooth protocol analyzers. The synchronization to the frequency hopping sequence succeeds with knowledge of the device addresses even if the devices are in non-discoverable mode. All layers of the Bluetooth protocol stack can be viewed and analyzed offline. The extraction and reading of the transmitted user data (payload) is possible in the absence of encryption. By using an antenna with a strong directional characteristic and suitable electronics to amplify a received Bluetooth signal, such an eavesdropping attack can also be carried out at a greater distance than the usual functionality range. Transmission power control is optional and not supported by any Bluetooth device. Unfortunately, using frequency hopping alone is not a serious obstacle for a sufficiently informed attacker, although it is often read rde unauthorized participation or the reception and listening to Bluetooth connections much more difficult. The reason for using a frequency hopping method is to keep transmission errors due to interference from the operation of other devices (eg, WLANs) using the same frequency band small, thus ensuring good availability to be able to.
* The unique Bluetooth device addresses can be misused to track individual devices. In this way it is possible to create motion profiles of the users. The device address is not only used to establish a connection, the device address of the master is partly contained (24 of the 48 bits) in each data packet.




