#G 5.175 Jacking
In a clickjacking attack, parts of a web page are covered in the presentation so that transparent layers that are not visible to the user overlay the displayed contents of the web page.

In these transparent levels, any content or control elements can be integrated without them being visible to the user. If the user clicks on the alleged contents of the website, the click is not sent to the visible level, but to the superimposed levels and thus hijacked. The attack name Clickjacking results from the combination of words Click for mouse click and jacking of hijacking.

In addition to mouse clicks, keyboard entries can also be redirected to third-party servers by means of transparently displayed text fields (eg placement via password fields).

Examples:

* An attacker participates in a program for advertisements, where the amount of the commission is determined by the clicks of the visitors (click-through or pay-per-click). It overlays a portion of a web application with an invisible link to the ad, causing the user to click the ad unnoticed. This increases the number of clicks and thus the payout commission.
* An attacker places an Invisible Filled Me button on a website for his own Facebook page, which always follows the mouse pointer. This is not noticeable to the user. If he clicks somewhere on the page, Facebook's Fulfillment feature will be executed and he will send his Facebook data to the attacker, who will then be able to exploit it.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



