#G 5.151 DNS Flooding - Denial of Service
A denial-of-service attack (DoS attack) aims to prevent legitimate users of IT systems from using these systems. Limited resources such as CPU time, memory, disk space, network bandwidth, or the like are intentionally overloaded.

In a DoS attack on a DNS server, so many requests are sent to it that the network connection to the DNS server or the DNS server itself is overloaded. As a rule, the requests are sent via a botnet in order to achieve the necessary traffic volume. Because in this form of attack a DNS server is literally flooded with queries, it is also known as DNS flooding. A DNS server overloaded in this way can no longer answer legitimate requests. As a rule, all DNS servers responsible for the domain are attacked, so names of this domain can no longer be resolved.



## Examples 
* Two companies have developed very similar products and are therefore in direct competition. The product is distributed via the company's own webshop. One company is lagging behind the other company in terms of turnover. To make up for this disadvantage, the lower-volume company decides to carry out a DoS attack against its competitors' DNS servers. As a result, the domain name of the webshop of the attacked company can no longer be resolved. Interested customers will fail in a connection attempt because the DNS servers can no longer handle requests due to overloading. The loss of business and the damage to the image cause great harm to the victim.




