#G 5.84 Forgotten certificates
Certificates are used to bind a public cryptographic key to a person. This binding of the key to the name of the person is in turn secured cryptographically by means of a digital signature of a trustworthy third party. These certificates will then be used by third parties to verify the digital signatures of the person named in the certificate or to send that person data encrypted using the key recorded in the certificate.

If such a certificate is forged, digital signatures are incorrectly verified as correct and assigned to the person in the certificate, or data is encrypted and sent with a possibly insecure key. Both ways of attacking can move a victim to circulate fake certificates.

Forged certificates can be generated in various ways:

* An interior of the trusted agency creates a certificate with false information with its own signature key. This certificate is authentic and will be verified as valid during a check.
* A person pretends to be another person and applies for a certificate issued to that other person, even though the person is in possession of the secret key that corresponds to the public key in the certificate.
* A person creates a certificate and signs it with his own key. The felling only occurs when the certificate is verified and it can be established that the certificate was issued by a non-trustworthy body.


Once a perpetrator has received a false certificate in any way, he or she may turn out to be a different person to communication partners at any time, both when sending and receiving messages.

Status: as of 2005



