#G 5.194 Introduction of GSM codes into terminals with telephone function
GSM codes (or USSD or MMI codes) are combinations of numbers that begin and end with asterisk, hash, or both. They cause the terminal to perform certain functions. A well-known GSM code is * # 06 #, which on all terminals with telephone function causes the internationally unique device identification number (IMEI number) to be shown on the display. In addition, with GSM codes, the PIN and PUK can also be changed.

In addition to the GSM codes, there are also manufacturer-specific codes that, for example, put the device in the factory state or call the service menu. Another class of codes depends on the network operator or mobile operator. B. to query the credit account.

A threat to information security arises from the fact that these GSM codes can not only be transferred to the terminals via direct input on the device, but also via other interfaces. Thus, appropriately configured websites can transmit GSM codes to the terminal via the browser. QR codes (see G5.177 Abuse of short URLs or QR codes) can also contain GSM codes and pass them on to the terminal after being scanned. In addition, it is possible to introduce such codes via the near-field communication interface (NFC interface). This makes it possible for attackers to install malicious software for data espionage on the device or to block the SIM card, for example.

Examples:

* On an Internet site prepared by attackers, the GSM code is included for changing the PIN three times and then changing the PUK ten times. An employee visits the website with his smartphone and the GSM code is transmitted to his device. Thereafter, the SIM card is locked so that it is no longer possible for the user to unlock it without the help of the IT department.
* Attackers have pasted the QR code on a billboard with another QR code. This now contains, instead of a link to a website with further information, the GSM code for a firmware reset. , Such an incident not only threatens information security, but also damages the public reputation of the institution from which the poster originates.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



