#G 5.172 Override authorization for web applications and web services
If a user or web service client has properly logged in to a web application or service, it will not necessarily have access to all functions (depending on its assigned role) Deploy web application or web service. Therefore, after successful authentication of the user or the client for individual functions, the web application or the web service must verify that it is authorized for execution (authorization).

Attacks against the authorization component will attempt to access functions or data that are actually available only to a limited group of users. If access authorization is implemented incorrectly, an attacker can extend their privileges and gain access to protected areas and data. This is usually done by deliberate manipulated input from an attacker.

Conceivable attack targets are, for example, configuration files with hard-coded access data for background systems, protected areas or functions of the web application.

The following lists possible vulnerabilities in authorizing access to web resources.

Examples:

* When entering path data, resources (such as ../../../config.xml) that are intended for access via the web application can not be retrieved via a relative reference (by path traversal). As a result, unauthorized files such as configuration files can be downloaded from the file system or overwritten. Using relative paths, not only files of the web application can be accessed, but also resources of the underlying IT system can be retrieved under certain circumstances.


* Web applications often use object references to address a resource in background systems (for example, http: //host.tld/get.php? Id = 2). For example, resources such as content for displaying a web page can be assigned to a database entry. If object references are disregarded by the authorization component, trusted resources may be accessed via manipulation of the reference id in the URL.


* One way to protect information from a web application is to only display the URL that links this information to authorized users. Unauthorized users do not know the URL. An attacker can systematically try to guess the URL and gain access to protected information or features of the web application. This attack is called forced browsing.


* If the authorization component of a web service is configured incorrectly so that, for example, it also permits anonymous access or access to incorrect services, an unauthorized person can call up these services and gain access to data and functions.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



