#G 5.12 Listening to telephone calls and data transmissions
When phone calls or data are transmitted unencrypted, there is a real danger that attackers may be listening or reading information. For example, attackers could tap into the telephone line directly or listen to a PBX switching between the call participants.

Using Voip makes it easier to listen to phone calls and data transmissions than with traditional TC systems. All voice information is transmitted within an IP media stream, for example using the Realtime Transport Protocol (RTP). Techniques such as spoofing and sniffing provide all options for attacks on IP data networks.

Many PBX systems allow callers to leave messages to a recipient if they can not be reached by phone at the time of the call. Some answering machines, especially in VoIP systems, send this information as an audio file by means of an e-mail. Like a VoIP media stream, the content of this email could be intercepted and listened to directly by an attacker.

Furthermore, conversations between colleagues may also be heard as a result of the improper use of features, both in VoIP and in circuit-switched TC systems. An example of this is the tripartite conference. If subscriber A receives a call for subscriber B, instead of handing over the call, he could secretly make a three-way conference. If subscriber B has a phone without a display or does not look right, he would not notice this fact.

Furthermore, conversations could be heard by third parties through the activation of blocked, partially inadmissible performance features in Germany. As an example, the witness circuit is mentioned here. Such an activation requires more detailed knowledge of the system, which often does not pose a major obstacle due to many freely available information on the Internet.

Stand: 12th EL Stand 2011



