#G 5.97 Unauthorized data transfer via mobile phones
Mobile phones allow the transport of data from an IT system, eg. On the other hand, without having to make a wired connection.

Information can be inconspicuously queried and transmitted where open access to IT systems is possible. Using a mobile phone with a connected or built-in modem, stored information can be wirelessly transmitted to virtually anywhere in the world. Today's smartphones are almost always connected to the Internet. They use WLAN and high-speed data services such as HSDPA and LTE, and can therefore pass on large amounts of data without authorization.

This type of unauthorized data transfer can be performed either with a specially brought or even with an internal mobile phone. In this way, large amounts of data can be made to go unnoticed. New technologies are making the transfer of large amounts of data via mobile phones increasingly attractive. For GSM, the maximum data transfer rate is currently 14.4 Kbps. Newer protocols achieve much higher bandwidths. Thus, with GPRS a transmission of 53.6 Kbit / s, with UMTS a transmission of 384 Kbit / s and with LTE or LTE advances a transmission of 300 Mbit / s or 900 Mbit / s possible.

For an unauthorized data transfer, a specially brought or even an internal mobile phone can be used. A subsequent check is not always possible because the connection data may have already been deleted by the network operator.



## Examples 
* An employee of a company is called from a meeting with an outside party to receive an important phone call. The outside person uses the short period of time without supervision to connect the PC in the meeting room to his GSM modem. He then initiates a data transfer to a port of his choice.
* Many smartphones can be used as wireless hotspots (so-called tethering). An attacker could use a smartphone to replace the radio signal of the actual WLAN in a room (for example, a hotel lobby) in which there is regular WiFi access. So he can record and listen to all the data connections of the subscribers in this room who are now connected to the Internet via this smartphone.




