#G 5.82 Manipulation of a crypto module
An attacker could attempt to manipulate a crypto module to extract secret keys or change keys, or to change critical security parameters. A crypto module can be manipulated in various ways, it can, for example.

* a super password that can be used to bypass all other passwords,
* undocumented test modes that allow access to sensitive areas at any time,
* Trojan horses, d. H. Software that performs other, not directly identifiable actions, such as the recording of passwords, in addition to its actual task,
* manipulated access rights to certain commands


contain. Other examples of such attacks are

* the modification of cryptographic keys,
* the impairment of internal key generation, eg. B. by manipulation of the random number generator,
* the modification of the processes within the crypto module,
* Modifications to the source code or the executable code of the crypto module,
* Exceeding or undercutting the permissible working range with regard to the voltage supply, temperature, EMC limit values ??etc. of the crypto module.


When tampering with the crypto module, the attacker will usually try to cover up this attack, so that the crypto module for users seems to work correctly at first glance, but is in an insecure state. However, there are also destructive attacks in which the destruction of the crypto module is deliberately accepted, for example if an attacker wants to receive information about the functioning of the crypto module or if the cryptographic keys are to be read out.

An attacker can try to complete his attacks at the site of the crypto module or steal it. In the case of a poorly protected site, the manipulations can be carried out very quickly under certain circumstances and may therefore go unnoticed for a long time. Theft of crypto modules can give an attacker important information about how to manipulate a component most easily. He can use the stolen components to extract sensitive information such as keys, software, or knowledge about hardware security mechanisms. He can also use the stolen component to simulate an authentic crypto module.

Status: as of 2005



