#G 5.61 Abuse of remote access to router management functions
Routers have remote access for management functions. All administrative and maintenance activities as well as signaling functions can be handled via these accesses. Such remote accesses are useful and sometimes indispensable, particularly in larger networks with multiple routers or in the LAN connection via wide area networks.

The type of remote access can be differentiated between:

* Modem access via dedicated interface (eg V.24) and
* direct access via reserved bandwidths.


If the SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) protocol is used for network management, there are further dangers due to the lack of or not yet implemented security functions, which go beyond the direct misuse of the unprotected remote interfaces:

* An unauthorized user intercepts data packets from an SNMP management station and changes the parameter values ??contained therein for its own purposes. After this manipulation, the manipulated data packets are sent to the actual destination station. The receiver device has no way of detecting this data manipulation and therefore reacts to the information contained in the packet as if it had been sent directly by the management station.
* If the owner of a network management station gains access to the network managed by SNMP, it is possible to mirror a community (administration area within SNMP). Through this masquerade, an unauthorized user triggers an authorized identity and can read out all information of the agents (objects to be managed in the network, eg routers) as well as perform all management operations. The agent has no way of distinguishing between the right and the wrong identity.


Status: as of 2005



