#G 5.173 Integration of third-party data and malicious code in web applications and web services
If the input and output data of a web application or a web service is not sufficiently validated, an attacker can integrate content such as malicious code for manipulating servers, clients or downstream systems. The embedded data is returned to the user in the security context of the web application or web service. Consequently, the user of the web application or the consumer of the web service is not limited or only possible to recognize the manipulated portions of the output. The attacker could thus exploit the trusted position of the authenticated user against the web application or web service.

In the case of web services, malicious code can be targeted to the web service itself or to a consumer of the web service (end application or downstream web service). In web applications, both the clients and the web application servers can be attacked by embedded malicious code. For example, data embedded by an attacker may include malicious code for execution on the clients (for example, for reading sensitive data) or fake login forms for theft of access data. If the embedded program code is executed by the web application or the web service, the operating system of the server can also be compromised.

Examples:

* Parameters in the URL can be used to include foreign content in dynamic web pages that can not be distinguished from the contents of the web application (for example, http: //host.tld/index.php? Frame = http: //angreifer.tld&title= modified title). In this case, the transmitted parameter title is embedded in the returned web page of the web application as a title in the HTML document. Similarly, the frame parameter is used as the source for a frame on the web page. With this, any content and program code (for example JavaScript) can be inserted into the website via the parameter values. The same attack is transferable to web services that are addressed via a REST interface, so their parameters are passed as part of the URL.


* A forwarding function accepts any values ??as the destination address. As a result, an attacker can initiate redirection to untrusted Web sites via a compromised parameter (for example, http: //host.tld/redirect.php? Target = http: //angreifer.tld). The user expects to be redirected to a trusted address based on the originating domain of the web application. This can be exploited by an attacker to initiate a phishing attack by forwarding to a fake login page to enter the credentials.


* In web applications, third-party content from partners (for example, advertisements in an iframe) can be integrated. The control over these contents is usually with the partner and not with the operator of the web application. If malicious software or unwanted content is involved via the partner, this can damage the reputation of the web application operator, since the content is presented to the user in the context of the web application. In addition, the clients of the visitors can be infected by the malware and thus compromised.


* An upload function of the web application can be used to save any files in the directory structure on the server. As a result, faulty scripts for execution on the web application may be saved or existing files (for example, configuration files) may be overwritten. The uploading of large amounts of data can also lead to a prevention of the service.


* External references are embedded in the XML-formatted parameters for a Web service, for example <! DOCTYPE sample PUBLIC foo>. If the server-side application follows the interpretation of the results of the external reference, the attacker can initiate outgoing IP connections from the server and thus either end the operation (Denial-of-Service) or gain information about internal network structures.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



