#G 5.132 Compromise RDP user sessions as of Windows Server 2003
Remote Desktop Protocol Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) is an effective and common means of remotely maintaining a Windows server and using programs on remote computers (Remote Desktop). The connection from a client to the RDP server takes place without prior authentication of the user. The entire Remote Desktop login screen is immediately mirrored to the local client screen. There is a risk that an attacker could gain remote access to the system through the Windows RDP login.

Information about the operating system version and domain membership of the Windows server is available to each Remote Desktop user without user name and password. More informations about background pictures could be revealed. Administrators often display administrative information as a background image or the server manufacturer has specified a manufacturer-specific background image for preinstalled operating systems. This can be used to obtain useful information in order to analyze the system and exploit corresponding security gaps.

If the network connection is lost during an RDP session, Windows Server 2003 automatically restores the session without logging in again once the client resumes network connection to the server. Time periods up to the minute range can be bridged. The increased fault tolerance comes at the cost of the integrity of an RDP session. An attacker can gain remote access to the system through social engineering or interception. A connection with RDP version 5.2 of Windows Server 2003 can be easily intercepted by third parties and redirected unnoticed. Although Windows Server 2003 with Service Pack 1 has secured with SSL, many clients can no longer connect, such as remote desktop clients from earlier versions of Windows and RDesktop for Unix / Linux. As a result, SSL protection typically can not be used across the board, and there is still a risk that the connection will be intercepted and unauthorized access to the system will be sustained.

Due to the described dangers an increased danger of the server is assumed, as soon as RDP is used.

* An American manufacturer delivered servers with preinstalled OEM versions of Windows Server 2003 to its customers. When logging on to the operating system via console or remote desktop, a background image with logo of the manufacturer and a photo of the server hardware appeared. As a result, vulnerabilities could be detected through the system and used for attacks.
* During a network interruption, the administrator briefly leaves the management PC running an RDP session. If he is not back in time and no screen saver with password protection is active, a third party could continue to use the RDP session once the network interruption has been resolved. He would have the full authority of the administrator and could cause great or accidental or accidental damage.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



