#G 5.101 Hacking Lotus Notes / Domino
The data stored in the databases of a Lotus Domino server can also be made available for public access from the Internet. This places special demands on the security of the used Lotus Domino server. In this case, security gaps can lead to an attacker not only having unauthorized access to the Lotus Domino server, but may also be able to penetrate the internal network behind it.

The following are some problem areas and potential security gaps that must be taken into account, especially in the case of public access to a Lotus Domino server from the Internet:

* A Lotus Domino server is a complex system. A server network increases the complexity. The complexity (including the security-relevant settings) can lead to misconfiguration and thus also to security gaps.
* Due to the large scope of functions of a Lotus Domino server and the possible integration into corresponding background systems, security gaps may be able to penetrate the background systems under circumstances of a Lotus Domino server. It usually suffices to exploit a single vulnerability in a single function package.
* If the web access to a Lotus Domino server is activated, this always affects all databases on the respective server. This can easily be exploited for useful attacks, in particular against standard databases, if secure access rights are not assigned for each database.
* A well-known method for hacking a Lotus Domino server is to access perHTTP on names.nsf using a legitimate user account and reading out the person documents including password hashes, from which the passwords are determined by means of appropriate cracking programs.


Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



