#G 5.93 Allow third-party use of VPN components
If unauthorized persons are allowed to use the components of a virtual private network (VPN), ie bypassing the existing authorization concept, the security of the VPN is no longer ensured (see also G3.3.30 Unauthorized private use of the official teleworking computer). The following dangers exist especially for remote access VPNs:

* VPN access can be used unauthorized if security policies are not adhered to. For example, it happens again and again that administrators allow misunderstood friendliness the VPN dial-in for unauthorized persons (for example, for Internet use).


* VPN users pass authentication data or tokens to unauthorized third parties in order to grant them remote access to the LAN under their ID. Possible motives for this are z. For example, the transfer to a colleague who, according to the VPN security concept, is not entitled to use the VPN or has forgotten to apply for VPN use in good time before commencing a business trip. The VPN user account is used by several users in the following, so that in case of damage no clear identification of the causer is possible.


* For the field of telework, the problem often arises that the VPN client is used by family members or friends of family members. Non-organization personnel working with the VPN client will generally disregard the security rules that apply to the VPN client. This can compromise the security of the institution's LAN.


At remote locations, it can never be ruled out that the IT systems there are being used by third parties. Since external physical access can also be accessed, they could also have been manipulated. The security mechanisms could be undermined.

Stand: 10th EL Stand 2008



