#G 5.105 Prevention of archive system services
The services of an electronic archive consist of the following basic functions:

* Capture and index the documents to be archived
* Manage and save the documents,
* Search and find archived documents,
* Visualize and reproduce the documents as well
* Maintain and administer the archive system.


If the services of an archive system are disturbed, it can cause damage, as the following examples should explain:

* Is the indexing of archived data prevented or disturbed, eg. For example, by specifying incorrect context data, this may mean that data can not be retrieved later or can only be retrieved at considerable expense.


* If the archiving of new data is prevented or blocked, eg by If, for example, the network connection of the archive system is blocked by a denial-of-service attack, this can result in a considerable backlog, depending on the data traffic, which is not backed up. In the event of a system failure, the loss of those documents still pending for archiving would then have to be expected. If an archive system is selected that does not generate any archive confirmation that is visible to the user, there is a risk that any document losses will initially go undetected. On the other hand, if a system with archive confirmation is used, failure to confirm may also delay subsequent business or administrative operations.


* If the reproduction of archived data is prevented, disturbed or delayed, this may result in the fact that required documents can not be provided on time, which could result in economic damage or legal disadvantages.


* If the administration of the archive system is obstructed or delayed, eg. B. by overloading the staff with inquiries, it may happen that persons to whom access is to be blocked, continue to have access to the archive and there unauthorized set or retrieve documents.
* Disruption of the administration may cause damage even if the maintenance of the archive system is impaired or delayed. As a result, security-related software updates may not be timely or inadequately tested.


Status: as of 2005



