#G 5.115 Overcoming the boundaries between VLANs
Virtual LANs (VLANs) are used to logically structure networks. Within a physical network, a logical network structure is mapped by connecting functionally connected workstations and servers to form a virtual network. A VLAN simultaneously forms a separate broadcast domain. This means that broadcasts are distributed only within the VLAN. A VLAN can take over a whole switched network and does not just need to be limited to a single switch.

Extending VLANs over several switches is realized by different so-called trunking protocols. In this case, one physical port is reserved per switch for inter-switch communication, and the logical connection between the switches is called a trunk. An Ethernet frame is encapsulated in the Trunking protocol during information exchange between the switches. This allows the destination switch to map the information to the appropriate VLAN. The standards used are IEEE 802.1q and the proprietary protocols ISL (Inter Switch Link) and VTP (VLAN Trunking Protocol) of the manufacturer Cisco.

For example, if an attacker who is connected to a switch experiences ISL (Inter Switch Link) or IEEE 802.1q as a switch by using the trunking protocols, it will be able to gain access to all configured VLANs and data that belong to a VLAN to which the attacker normally has no access.

Information about configured VLANs is exchanged between Cisco switches using the proprietary VTP protocol. It is possible to distribute the VLAN configuration of a central VTP server within a VTP domain to all involved switches. Although this simplifies the management of VLANs with multiple switches, it also poses an additional security risk: Although VTP supports authentication within a VTP domain, it does not provide a password for authenticating switches within a DOM If set, an attacker (for example, on a dedicated switch configured as a VTP server) can override the entire VLAN architecture on switches in the VTP domain.

Status: as of 2005



