#G 5.186 Access to information from other clients through WWN spoofing
Using programs provided by the manufacturer of the Host Bus Adapter (HBA), the World Wide Name (WWN) of an HBA can be changed. The attacker can thus access data for whose insight he has no authorization. Knowing the WWN of the spoofed HBA facilitates such an attack, but it also gives attackers the opportunity to determine it in some other way. An easily identifiable part of the WWN is the object identifier (OID) of the respective manufacturer. If the HBAs come from a production batch, the WWNs are likely to be close together. By brute force Attake can therefore be completed the WWN.

The manipulation of WWNs, also known as WWN spoofing, poses considerable potential for an institution. Particularly in connection with multi-client storage solutions, unauthorized access to information from other clients can be the result of such attacks.

Potential outbreaks of WWN spoofing attacks include:

* A missing or inadequate rights and role concept provides administrative access to tools for manipulating the WWN on the HBA.
* Using WWN zoning allows WWN spoofing unauthorized access to network resources.
* Using port zoning, physical access to the switch allows components to be connected to appropriate ports. Through this attack, all information in the affected WWW can be manipulated by the attacker.
* The manipulation of LUN masking using WWN spoofing means that systems can access memory resources for which they were originally not authorized.


Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



