#G 5.112 Manipulation of ARP tables
In contrast to a hub, in the case of a switch communication between two stations can in principle not be intercepted by any of the other stations. For this purpose, the switch maintains a table which associates the MAC addresses of the stations involved with the various ports. Data packets or Ethernet frames that are addressed to a specific MAC address are only forwarded to the port to which the relevant computer is connected.

But not only the switch maintains a table with MAC addresses, but also the computers involved. With ARP requests, these ARP tables can be filled on the participating computer. The goal of ARP spoofing is to manipulate the ARP tables (ARP cache poisoning). To do this, an attacker sends an ARP response to the victim, where he spends his own MAC address as that of the router acting as the default gateway for that subnet. If the victim then sends a package to the default gateway, this package actually ends up with the attacker. In the same way, the router's ARP cache is manipulated so that Ethernet frames that were actually addressed to the victim actually end up at the attacker. Relevant Internet sites provide a set of tools that make this attack method possible.

MAC flooding is an attack method that affects how a switch works. Switches learn connected MAC addresses dynamically. The MAC addresses are stored in the switching table. The switch knows by which ports the corresponding MAC addresses are connected.

Now, if a connected station uses a suitable tool to send a large number of packets with different source MAC addresses, the switch stores these MAC addresses in its switching table. As soon as the memory space for the switching table is filled, a switch sends all packets to all switch ports. By flooding the switching table with meaningless MAC addresses, a switch can no longer determine which ports have actual destination MAC addresses attached. This attack method is used to allow the reading of packets in switched networks. There are freely available tools on relevant Internet sites that can generate more than 155,000 MAC address entries in one minute on one switch.

Status: as of 2006



