#G 5.176 Compromise of the protocol data transmission with central logging
When the log data is stored centrally, the recorded information is transmitted to a logging server, which processes and evaluates it. The transmitted logging events may contain personal information such as user names that can be assigned to a specific person. If the protocol data are transmitted via unsecured and non-encrypted transmission paths, they can be intercepted and manipulated.



## Examples 
* When planning to use a central log server, it was decided that the log data should be transmitted over a network interface (in-band). By tunneling the log messages via SSL, the messages in the network are encrypted. However, tunneling creates a security gap in the security gateway that an attacker can exploit to penetrate the internal network.
* The protocol data transfer from the various IT systems to the central logging server is made via the syslog protocol, which sends the messages connection-free via UDP protocol. A transient bandwidth shortage causes some log messages to be lost. Because no additional mechanisms are used to ensure that all data packets arrive at the destination, a short-term web server failure is not noticed.
* For years, the information network of a medium-sized business has been transmitting both the user and the log data via one and the same network interface (in-band). Due to increased workloads and missing caching, relevant log data in favor of higher prioritized user data has been repeatedly rejected in recent months. This means that the failure of a file server was detected too late and the operation had to be stopped for a whole day.




