#G 5.43 Macro viruses
When exchanging files (eg via a data carrier or e-mail), there is a risk that, in addition to the actual file (text file, table, etc.), further macros or embedded editor commands sent with the document will be sent become. These macros only run with the respective application program (Winword, Excel, etc.) when the document is edited, by activating the macro or automatically starting the macro. If a document is received via a WWW browser, which automatically opens the document, then a (auto) macro can be activated.

Since the macro languages ??have a very large set of instructions, there is also a risk that a macro may be added to a document that contains a malicious function (eg a virus).

In practice, this danger has increased considerably worldwide, especially with the files of the programs Word for Windows and Excel of the company Microsoft. For the user, it is not transparent that files for Word templates (* .DOT), which may contain macros, by renaming to * .DOC files appear to become data files that do not contain macros , However, Microsoft Word processes such files in almost the same way without reference to this fact (exception: Winword as of version 7.0a).

The Word macro viruses have now taken the lead in reported infections. It should be noted that macro viruses can occur on various operating system platforms, including those running Winword (Windows versions 3.1 and 3.11, Windows 95, Windows NT, Apple computers).



## Examples 
* The Winword macro virus Winword.Nuclear was distributed on the Internet via the WW6ALERT.ZIP file. On the one hand, the macro virus causes the text STOP ALL FRENCH NUCLEAR TESTING IN PACIFIC! on the other hand also the attempt to delete system files.




