#M 1.54 Fire early detection / extinguishing technology
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: planner

In order to be able to recognize fires in IT systems at a very early stage, the use of a fire detection system should be considered. Typically, such systems detect in the form of a Rauchansaug- and analysis system in the circulating air flow of the air conditioning already few and finest smoke particles.

For the monitoring of individual IT systems, object-related monitoring can also be performed by so-called multi-detectors. In addition to the conventional fire detection technology (geometric room monitoring), the object monitoring (ie the monitoring within individual IT components) represents an additional detector level. These multi-detectors can be used for object-related deletion as well as for switching off the power of the affected device.

In the case of developing fires, switching off the electrical energy may already be sufficient to delay or stop the fire.

If an additional deletion is considered necessary, it is appropriate, for reasons of cost and personal protection, to individually protect only individual objects (eg 19  inch cabinets) with extinguishing gases. The object protection systems should comply with the relevant standards such as the VdS guideline  2304 with regard to planning, fire alarm, erasure and the installation instructions of the manufacturers and their specifications for operation and maintenance.

For room monitoring in the IT sector, the installation of optical smoke detectors is suitable. The double floor should also be monitored by smoke detectors.

If there are special requirements for the availability of a data center or server room or if these contain particularly high-quality or difficult to retrofit IT components, the use of an automatic extinguishing system with inert gases (carbon dioxide, inergen, argon, nitrogen, FM 200 etc. ).

The asphyxiation effect for flames also applies to humans when oxygen-displaced extinguishing gases are used. Thus, with a carbon dioxide concentration of more than 8 volum percent acute mortal danger. For this reason, in the Federal Republic of Germany, the guidelines of the German Employers' Liability Insurance Association (BGR 134 Use of fire extinguishing systems with oxygen-evolving gases) call for the use of alarming and delay devices for extinguishing systems where the critical concentrations of which there is a risk of persons being exceeded or fallen short of, eg. at concentrations greater than 5 volume percent CO2 or less than 10 volume percent oxygen, in order to evacuate people from the extinguishing area in a timely manner.

The planning of a l gas system should basically only be done by a specialist planner.



