#M 1.62 Fire protection of patch panels
Responsible for initiation: fire protection officer

Responsible for implementation: fire protection officer, building services engineer

Both the internal lines of the home network and the external ones of the public network run on line distributors or patch panels, from which they are connected via connecting lines to servers, routers, etc.

Often, in smaller locations, distributors and active components (servers, routers, etc.) are stationed in one room. In order to prevent the line distributors and patch panels from being damaged by a fire of the active IT, they have to be sealed off from the active IT with suitable fire protection.

If facilities and facilities are available to detect and extinguish a fire in good time (object or room deletion), an E-30 partition (according to DIN4102 fire behavior of building materials and components) may be sufficient. If such facilities are not available and the fire protection concept provides only for deletion by auxiliary forces (own personnel, fire brigade), an E-90 enclosure is urgently recommended.

On the one hand, are the line distributors and patch panels neatly separated from each other in a room for technical infrastructure (see B 2.6 room for technical infrastructure) and the servers, routers, etc. in a server room (see B 2.4 server room), the corresponding foreclosure can be realized by suitable measures in the building.

If it is not possible to use separate rooms and the distribution boards and patch panels have to be arranged in the server room, it is possible to install them in suitable wall or stand distribution boards with the required functional integrity (E-30 or E-90). to arrange. However, special care must be taken to ensure that all incoming power lines from the home and public networks within the room are protected in the same way (eg by means of suitable cable ducts) against fire ,

In both solutions, care must be taken to ensure that the passage of the connecting cables from the cable distributors and patch panels to the IT equipment through the fire protection structure is always sealed with suitable fire protection agents. Because of the need to be able to work quickly and easily on these procedures without having to restore the fire protection costly each time, fire protection cushions or (in the case of less frequent work) (in the case of frequent work) are recommended for this purpose ) Pressing block. Used fire protection cushions must be secured against falling out.



