#M 1.25 Surge protection
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: building services

Irrespective of whether it is used for power supply or data transmission, overvoltages can occur at any time in any electrically conductive network. For the most part, such overvoltages are caused by other electricity consumers in the same supply network. Lightning overvoltages, on the other hand, are much rarer, but have a much greater potential for damage.

Not only over the lines laid in the house, but also over all electrically conductive outdoor connections such as telephone, water or gas lines, overvoltages can reach a building and the IT operated there. In addition, overvoltages can also be coupled to internal lines.

The necessary measures to protect IT equipment, regardless of the cause of the overvoltage, are essentially the same. The standard DINEN62305 lightning protection, which has been valid since October 2006 (corresponds to the standards VDE0185-305 and IEC62305), reorders the entire lightning and overvoltage protection. With a transitional period of 2 years, since October 1, 2008, all standards that previously governed lightning and overvoltage protection have lost their validity.

Based on the new standard DIN EN 62305, a surge protection concept must be created.

For the first time in its Part 2 Risk Management, DIN EN 62305 generally describes the path to risk-oriented lightning and overvoltage protection. Part 3 deals with the protection of structures and persons, in Part 4 electrical and electronic systems in structures.

Of course, in the overvoltage protection concept, stand-alone power supply systems (NEA) and uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs) must also be taken into account. Although UPSs provide some protection to the connected equipment, they should not be considered a surge protector, but solely as an electronic device to protect.

The former three levels of coarse, medium and fine protection have been replaced by the concept of energetic coordination. According to the standard, energetic coordination is only mandatory if there is external lightning protection. In terms of information security, the energetic coordination should also be considered in cases without outside lightning protection. Simplified, this means the following:

* Behind each protection element (SPD - Surge Protecting Device), the maximum amount of energy caused by overvoltage must be the same as that of all the electrical devices behind it (including the following SPDs). Of course, a pure line network is much more robust and can handle a lot more energy than it does. B. The interface of a network card in a PC.
* All used SPDs must be compatible with each other. The output of a front SPD and the input of the following must be matched. Evidence of energetic coordination can be provided in three ways:


By building up the lightning and overvoltage protection, lightning protection zones (LPZ, Lightning Protection Zone) are formed like onion shells. With increasing protection, they are referred to from the outside inwards with LPZ 0, LPZ 1, LPZ 2, etc. In this case, a zone can only be formed if there are the next outside: Thus, it is not possible to realize an LPZ 2 without having the LPZ 1 as well.

For simple electrical and electromechanical devices, the LPZ 1 is usually sufficient. To protect electronic devices (IT hardware, UPS, etc.), at least the LPZ 2 must be implemented. For particularly sensitive devices, eg. In medical or measuring technology, the LPZ 3 may well be necessary.

Note:

The LPZ (lightning protection zones) should not be confused with the protection classes of the external lightning protection system, which is called LPS (Lightning Protection System).

Whether an LPS is required and with which protection class must be decided on the basis of the risk assessment (in accordance with Part 2 of DIN EN 62305). The earlier sufficient view into a Geb udeliste is no longer sufficient!

In many cases, the building-wide structure of an LPZ 2 or LPZ 3 is not necessary at all. During the transition from the LPZ 0 (this is all outside of a building, where the lightning can actually hit directly) to the LPZ 1 actually close to the Geb udeh lle as possible has to be done, the construction of higher LPZ can take place at any point and to any extent. However, it is important to ensure that no line that only enjoys the protection of LPZ 1 (eg heating pipes) passes through higher-quality LPZ.

The previously required minimum line lengths between the SPDs, ie the protective elements, and the different LPZs are no longer compulsory today. There are SPDs that realize the transition from the LPZ 0 directly into the LPZ 2 in one component.

The protective effect of an SPD extends on both sides (to the incoming and outgoing line) only over a specific cable route, which is to be named in detail by the manufacturer. If the cable length is exceeded, disconnect SPDs repeatedly to maintain protection.

According to DIN EN 62305, lightning protection systems (LPS) must be tested at intervals of 1 to 4 years, depending on the protection class. The standard does not provide any explicit test intervals for the overvoltage protection devices. For the purposes of information security, however, all SPDs should be checked periodically (at least once a year) and after known events and replaced if necessary. To be able to carry out this test at all, only those SPDs should be installed, if available, which have an integrated defect display or (even better) a lifetime indication.

In addition to overvoltage protection on all electrically conductive systems, measures against electrostatic charge must be taken in server rooms and the core units of a data center. The volume resistance of floor coverings in such rooms must be between 10 and 100 mego ohms. The classification according to DIN regulation 4102-1 Fire behavior of building materials and components must reach at least B1 flame retardant. This also applies to a raised floor or installation floor.

Regardless of the scope and extent of the overvoltage protection, it must be ensured that a comprehensive equipotential bonding of all electrical equipment included in the overvoltage protection is required! Most of the damage to IT equipment due to overvoltages is attributable to inaccurate equipotential bonding.



