#M 1.28 Local uninterruptible power supply
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, building services

A local uninterruptible power supply (UPS) has the task of protecting a single IT system or very few IT devices against the consequences of short-term power interruptions. This objective is usually given in smaller IT structures, which also do not have a network backup system.

For larger IT structures or even the supply of entire buildings, mainly central UPS systems are used (see M 1.70 Central Uninterruptible Power Supply).

Regardless of whether a local USV is used as a stand-alone device or as a 19-inch slot, its performance and its retention time are codified by the device properties and can generally not be changed.

With the local UPS devices available today and the low power levels that can usually be provided by them (in the range of up to approximately 1 kVA), these power failures can be bridged for up to 120 minutes without any problem (uptime) , The actual backup time required in the specific scenario depends on how long, on the one hand, the shutdown of the connected devices (shutdown) lasts and, on the other hand, how long it is to wait for the power supply to restart (waiting time). , Since a large portion of all power outages last only a few minutes, a waiting period of 15 minutes should usually be sufficient to cover a supply interruption. If the supply interruption lasts longer than the waiting time and the supplied IT system has to be shut down in order to avoid data loss, the total backup time should follow the formula

Backup time = wait time plus twice the shutdown time

be dimensioned. The dual approach of the shutdown time provides a safety margin if the shutdown takes longer than expected. Any replacement or addition of IT equipment supplied by a UPS requires rechecking whether the available backup time is sufficient.

Three types of UPS are to be distinguished:

* VFD UPSVFD UPS (VFD stands for Voltage and Frequency Dependent) supplies the connected loads directly from the mains during normal operation. Smaller faults in the supply network can thus reach the connected consumers directly. Only when this completes will the VFD-UPS automatically switch on and take over the supply. To do this, it takes up to 10 ms (switchover), which can be too much for some IT devices. The VFD UPS was formerly called offline UPS.
* VI-UPS (Voltage Independent) In this case, the supply voltage is readjusted with smaller fluctuations (VI stands for Voltage Independent), without the USV as such taking over the supply of the connected loads completely. However, the frequency at the output of a VI-UPS is directly dependent on the supply network, as with a VFD-UPS. Also in the case of the VI-UPS, switching over to battery operation can lead to a changeover gap.
* VFI UPS (Voltage and Frequency Independent) The VFI UPS (Voltage and Frequency Independent) normally does not have a direct connection between the UPS input and output. The electrical energy is rectified on the input side and fed into the DC link. From there, the batteries are kept in the optimum state of charge and the inverter is supplied. This generates the AC voltage required for the connected loads. Since the output energy is generated permanently independent of the input via the inverter, there are no switching points here. The VFI UPS was formerly referred to as an online UPS.


Since the VFI-USV is the only one of the three systems that really works uninterrupted, it should always be given preference. Taking into account further quality characteristics which are not treated here, a UPS classified according to DINIEC62040-3 according to VFI-SS-111 represents the optimum for the IT supply.

AUSV of which type does not constitute overvoltage protection in the strict sense. On the contrary, aVUS must, like all other electrical consumers, be protected against overvoltages by suitable protective measures (see M 1.25 overvoltage protection).

To avoid potential problems with protective conductor currents, IT equipment supplied with a local UPS should not be connected via shielded cables (eg printer cables) to other IT equipment connected via be supplied another way.

Since the batteries of a local UPS are rarely operated in their optimum temperature range (typically around 20 C), the battery life of local UPS devices is rather low, at best up to 5  years, usually fewer. During this period of operation, the batteries lose power permanently, so that a local UPS can provide at most two-thirds of the time when it is still new. To ensure that the UPS provides the required backup time, the actual backup time should be calculated approximately once a year. Some UPS systems have built-in test mechanisms. If this is not the case, the value can be determined by a load test.

As with all other electrical equipment, UPS systems should also be operated in the temperature ranges specified by the manufacturer. This is to be taken into account when dimensioning the cooling.

In order to maintain the protective effect of a USV, it must be regularly maintained. For this, the maintenance intervals of the USV provided by the manufacturer must be observed.

If a local UPS, together with the IT supplied with it, is in a fire surveillance area and the fire monitoring system initiates a de-energization in the surveillance area, it must absolutely be ensured that the local UPS is also switched completely inoperable. This means that not only the supply of the UPS (input of the UPS) is switched off. Also the inverter (output of the UPS) must be switched off and the batteries must be electrically disconnected from the UPS.



