#M 1.6 Compliance with fire safety regulations
Responsible for initiation: fire protection officer, head of building services

Responsible for implementation: fire protection officer, building services

The existing fire protection regulations (eg according to NormDIN4102 Fire behavior of building materials and components) and the requirements of building supervision for buildings must be strictly adhered to. The local fire brigade should be involved in fire safety planning.

For rooms containing important IT equipment and data carriers (servers, data backups, etc.), the provisions of EN1047 Part 2 should also be observed. The aim here is to have the effect of a fire by means of special measures such as the installation of doors with fire and smoke protection quality, the careful execution of partitioning and possibly even the maintenance of walls to keep the contents of such rooms as low as possible.

For meeting, training and event rooms, the appropriate regulations for fire safety in meeting places may have to be observed. Since there are different additional requirements depending on the type of use, such as, for example, the type of opening and width of doors in the course of escape and rescue routes and signage, the local fire department should also be consulted here during planning.

A person should be designated who is responsible for compliance with fire safety regulations. This may be a fire safety officer or a person entrusted with the task, who is also appropriately trained.

It is advisable to observe further instructions on fire protection, as can be found, for example, in the publications of VdS Schadenverh tung GmbH.

It is particularly important to describe the escape routes well. For this, the prescribed license plates must be used and the regulations for their attachment must be adhered to. The escape routes must always be kept open, which means in particular that they can not be obstructed, eg. B. by the inventory parked in the corridor or by the escape doors are completed.

So that the fire brigade can quickly start firefighting in the event of a fire, it is important that the fire alarm panel, the fire alarm panel and the entry points for extinguishing water can be found quickly by signposting.

Achieving an efficient fire protection requires the cooperation of all relevant parties. This includes the functions

* the fire safety officer (employer is responsible for compliance with fire safety regulations),
* the occupational safety specialist (required in Germany according to    5,  6 Occupational Health and Safety Act, which is responsible for the design of company fire protection) and
* of the safety officer (required in Germany according to   22SGBVII, which has detailed activities, eg for the prevention of occupational accidents and occupational diseases, and works for the occupational safety specialist).




