#M 1.49 Technical and organizational specifications for the data center
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: planner

A data center should be fully designed as a closed security area. When planning a data center or selecting suitable premises, potential dangers due to environmental influences should be minimized as far as possible. Thus, potential hazards such as access by unauthorized persons, water ingress in flat roofs or in basements are to be counteracted in the same way as EMV sources of disturbance, such as eg. Mobile radio transmitting devices or three-phase power units.

To avoid a mix between the coarse technology (power supply, air conditioning) and the fine technology (computer) in the data center, separate room units should be planned. The technical infrastructure of the data center must be installed in separate rooms.

It should be noted that the protection requirements of the active network components involved in the outside communication (such as routers and switches) correspond to the protection requirements of the core areas of the data center. The security measures must therefore be equivalent, the communication and telecommunications components must be protected just as high as the internal components. This concerns both the material protection, as well as detection, notification and alerting.

It is therefore recommended that the trades for

* Telecommunications,
* Air conditioning and ventilation,
* Power supply,
* Bearings etc.


in each case in a separate room (optionally also own fire section) to accommodate.

When planning, care should be taken to ensure that the routes of the supply lines of the building, eg. for water or gas (see M 1.24 Prevention of water-bearing pipes), not in the immediate vicinity or even through sensitive areas of the data center.

When planning remodeling or new construction measures for a data center, the parameters described below should be taken into account.

In practice, a side ratio of 1: 1 to a maximum of 2: 3 has proven to be favorable for a computer room. This division facilitates the structured arrangement of IT components and their cabling in the data center.

If the structural conditions permit, the installation of a double floor is recommended. Its height depends on the technical equipment and use of the data center. If the double floor is used for air conditioning, it should have at least 50 cm clear height. At high heat loads of more than 1000 watts per square meter, a clear height of 90-100  cm is recommended.

When designing IT rooms, at least the following frameworks are recommended:

Ceilings and double floors should be designed for a load capacity of at least 10 kN / m2.

The raised floor must have a high accuracy of fit and, from a height of 20 cm, a fire resistance of F30 in a closed condition. In general, the relevant safety guidelines should be observed, such as the 12825 double sheets.

Note: The double floors and suspended ceilings must be flush with the IT room. Such constructions should not create any unsecured access.

Corridors should have a width of at least 1.80 m and be designed with non-slip, smooth floor coverings that can withstand higher transport loads.

Elevators as vertical transport routes within the data center should have a capacity of at least 1500 kg. The clear internal cabin dimensions should be at least 2.80 m in depth, 1.50 m in width and 2.20 m in height.

The entire data center security area should have as few as one or two access doors and no windows, as all access options must be monitored (see also M 1.10 Secure doors and windows). Access should be protected by high-quality access control mechanisms (see also M 1.73 Protection of a data center against unauthorized access).

Adequate structural and technical burglar protection is essential for a data center. Further recommendations for this are included in measure M 1.19 Intrusion Prevention.

A data center is a security-relevant area, so only the administrators should have access to the IT systems set up there. By means of a coordinated access regulation, it must be possible for own employees and, more importantly, for temporary employees, eg. to service the data center, ensuring they can not access systems outside their area of ??responsibility.

It should be prohibited to bring portable IT systems, cell phones or cameras into a data center unless they are under the control of the institution. In general, the operation of mobile phones in data centers should be prohibited as they can significantly disrupt the operation of IT systems. Exceptions to this must be agreed (see M 2.188 Safety guidelines and regulations for mobile phone use).

For the IT components operated in data centers, a high degree of availability is required in many cases. These requirements can be met by redundant design of the infrastructural and technical facilities (see measure M 1.52 Redundancy, Modularity and Scalability in the Technical Infrastructure).



