#M 1.79 Formation of security zones
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer, Planner, Head of Internal Service

Responsible for implementation: internal service

The need for protection of rooms in a building depends on their use. The required safety measures must be adapted to this protection requirement. Accordingly, the structural design of walls, windows and doors must be and the additional equipment with safety and monitoring technology. When planning a new building or evaluating an existing building, therefore, similar protection needs should be grouped into zones. This allows uniform treatment of comparable risks and reduces the costs of implementing measures.

Umz. For example, if you do not need to permanently close or monitor every single room in the building, zones with visitor traffic should be separated from areas requiring protection. Public spaces such as a canteen that attracts external audiences or semi-public spaces such as meeting, training or event rooms should be located near the building entrance. Access to parts of the building with internal areas such as the offices may then take place. B. be easily monitored by a Pf rtner. Particularly sensitive areas such as a development department, building engineering or IT rooms should be protected with an additional access control.

For physically securing a building and, if applicable, the surrounding land, it has been proven to plan and implement a security concept with depth-restricted security measures (onion shell principle). It is divided into four security zones, outdoor area, controlled indoor area, internal area and high security area:



The safety zone 0, ie the outside area, is covered by the property boundary. If the situation permits, this legal limit should be clearly indicated by an enclosure. The first access and access control can already be done here. Public areas are assigned to this zone.

The security zone 1 is the controlled interior area. Through an appropriate access control, z. For example, if you have a caretaker or an access control system, only authorized persons (employees, invited visitors) will be given access to this zone. If there is a high need for protection, there should already be an obligation in this zone to always carry visible badges. The outer skin of zone 1 (building skin) should be protected by structural and technical measures against sabotage and burglary.

Zone 2 as an internal area can only be accessed by a restricted circle of authorized persons. There are defined access authorizations here. Rooms or building sections of zone 2 should only have one access at a time. Further access roads serve exclusively as escape and rescue routes and must always be kept closed during operation. They are to be permanently monitored and secured against abusive use by means of electromechanical safety devices (emergency exit systems).

Zone 3 forms the high-security area (eg, board areas, critical IT rooms). The circle of authorized access is very limited. The security measures should be correspondingly high. Example: Access is only possible via a security gate with two-factor authentication and separation, exit with one-factor authentication and isolation. There is an accounting of the access, as soon as no persons are reported more than present, the automatic arming of the burglar alarm system takes place.

Post offices, delivery and loading zones should be in security zone 1. They should be designed so that deliveries can be accepted without the suppliers having to enter further areas of the building. The doors in these areas should not be open for long. For higher protection needs, either only the outer door or the door should open to the inner areas. Incoming deliveries should be examined in the delivery zone to determine whether they could be associated with risks (see M 2.90 Check of delivery). The type and depth of the checks depends on the respective hazard potential (eg letter bombs). Incoming and outgoing deliveries should be kept as separate as possible.



