#M 1.24 Avoidance of water pipes
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, building services

In rooms or areas where IT equipment with central functions such as eg. Servers, water-bearing pipes of all kinds should be avoided. The only water-bearing pipes should, if absolutely necessary, be cooling water pipes, lanyard pipes and heating pipes. Heating pipes should be provided with shut-off valves as far as possible outside the room or area. Outside the heating period, these valves must be closed.

If water-bearing pipes are unavoidable, precautions must be taken to detect water leakage as early as possible or to minimize the negative effects. As a minimum protection, a water sump or trough can be installed under the pipe, the drain outside of the room leads. It is beneficial to use the corridor to do so, as any possible damage to the line can be detected quickly. For the early detection of water ingress or leaking pipes, it has been proven to paint ceilings lightly. By means of visual inspections, the existing water pipes must be regularly checked for leaks.

It is advisable to monitor water-bearing pipes through water detectors. For this purpose, special signaling cables can be laid below cables. If these are connected to a water alarm system, a quick and accurate localization of the water outlet is possible. Such a system must be switched to a permanent position in order to enable rapid intervention in conjunction with appropriate reaction plans and up-to-date documentation. Optionally, water detectors with automatically operating solenoid valves can be installed. These solenoid valves are to be installed outside the room or area. In order for the valves to fulfill their protective function even in the event of a power failure, they must be closed when de-energized.

As an additional or alternative measure, a self-sufficient dehydration is recommended (see M 1.14 Selective dehydration).

All employees in the area of ??IT and building services should be informed that in building parts with IT systems with high availability requirements, water-carrying pipes are problematic and must be taken into account. Reaction plans should be available describing the measures to be taken in the event of water leaks.



