#M 1.59 Suitable installation of storage and archive systems
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

As storage and archive systems store critical business or enterprise data in a concentrated manner, their IT components must be located in secure premises that only authorized users have access to. This applies in addition to the servers and network components used in particular the storage units (disk arrays, tape drives, disc jukeboxes).

For the appropriate installation of these IT components, all relevant measures described in the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs for Infrastructure Security must be implemented. Depending on the type and size of the storage or archiving system, the building blocks B 2.1 General building, B 2.9 data center, B 2.4 server room resp. B 2.7 Use protective covers. Particular attention should be paid to a sufficient reliability of the infrastructural components (power supply, etc.). When using storage systems, adequate redundancies in the technical infrastructure must also be created (see M 1.52 Redundancy, Modularity and Scalability in the Technical Infrastructure) in order to support the availability of these central resources as well as possible ,

For the long-term storage of the used archive storage media, the storage conditions specified in M 1.60 Suitable storage of archive media must be observed. Above all, the functional air conditioning of storage media, but also of the archive systems themselves, is to be considered here.

Frequently, electronic archives are realized in such a way that archive media are kept in permanent access by the storage unit. For this purpose, dedicated memory units are often used, which can manage and insert removable media automatically, for example robots for tape drives or jukeboxes for disc media. If a storage or archive system contains such components, the archive media will generally no longer be swapped out of the storage unit during its lifetime. This means that the storage conditions (such as air-conditioning, access protection, etc.) required of archive media must already be fulfilled and monitored in the storage component.

When selecting the storage or archival system, it must therefore be taken into account as a criterion that the required storage conditions for archive media in storage components can be maintained or what additional expense is incurred for this.



