#M 1.69 Cabling in server rooms
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, planner

Even in server rooms and data centers, the principles of structured cabling according to EN 50173-1 Information technology - Application neutral communication cable systems - Part 1: General requirements must be observed. A specially developed data center extension EN 50173-5 has been published as a draft standard. The implementation of the requirements of the standard is thus made easier for the user.

The requirements of the existing or planned network concept of the institution form the basis for the structuring of IT cabling in server rooms and data centers. The structure determines how the servers are networked and how they are connected to the LAN, to external networks and to providers. In the institution used or planned operating supportive systems, such as. Terminal Servers, KVM Switches, and Storage Area Network (SAN) / NAS (Network Attached Storage) are to be considered proactively. The foundations for the structure of the so-called access and concentration areas of IT cabling in analogy to the building structures with floor distributors and building distributors are thus laid down.

In larger installations, groups of cabinets containing servers are often assigned to a network cabinet. Fixed cabling or special system cabling for server rooms will be laid between network enclosures and the assigned server enclosures. The network barriers, in turn, are interconnected as required by the institution.

In order to make the best possible use of the area of ??the server room or data center, it is necessary to develop a room layout that is tailored to the requirements. In this room layout, the required areas for the cabinets with the systems that the institution operates (servers as well as storage systems and active and passive network components) are to be structured with reserves for the future. Safety aspects such as the arrangement of escape routes, operating aspects such as the arrangement of transport routes and also air conditioning aspects must be taken into account. On this basis, the planning of the electrotechnical supply and the track management can be done.

The use of a heavy-duty double floor is recommended for server rooms and data centers (see M 1.49 Technical and organizational specifications for the data center). If the raised floor is included in the air ducting of the cabinet air conditioning, then the road system must be taken into consideration. Due to many crossing paths between supply of fresh air in the double floors and cabinets that are located farther away and have a high thermal load, heat esters can form. Although the air conditioning capacity is sufficient for the room, some cabinets and the IT components stationed in them receive too little cooled air. This entails the risk of precipitation of servers or active network components due to overheating.

In addition, it is essential to pay attention to a non-dusty sealing of the screed or raw floor.

It is recommended to wire as tight as possible. This promotes a professional occupancy of the road system in the raised floor or under the ceiling. Servers should not be connected to centrally-located server switches using patch cords without additional routing systems, even though this type of cabling is often used in practice. Such flying cabling is particularly at risk for rewiring.

Cabinet systems tailored to the requirements of the institution, in which systems for cable routing and overlay storage are preassembled, allow a clear and easy-to-maintain cable routing in the cabinet.

Even if only a few cabinets are networked, it is expedient to install patch panels for the connection of the servers and a fixed connection of these patch panels to the network nodes in the server room in the cabinet systems. If a new concept is pending, it may be worthwhile, for example, to provide a patch panel for each category 6 or 7 copper cable (CAT-6 or CAT-7, suitable for 10 Gigabit connection) and, if necessary, in addition To use a fiber optic patch panel. The latter can serve, for example, for connecting the servers to storage networks. It goes without saying that the equipment of cabinets must be coordinated with the plans of the institution.

If there are no constructional reasons, in many cases a cable routing over routes, which run under the ceiling of the server room, is preferable to the cable routing through the double floor. In particular, when the double floor of the air conditioning is used, a double floor cabling can affect the leadership of the required cooling air. In addition, experience shows that the laying of the cables in the raised floor entails the increased risk that cables which are no longer needed will not be removed. When laying the cables in easily accessible cover channels, removing old cables is usually much easier.



