#M 1.18 Alarm system
Responsible for initiation: fire protection officer, IT security officer, head of building services

Responsible for implementation: building services

A hazard warning system (GMA) consists of a large number of local detectors that communicate with a control center, via which the alarm is triggered. If a security alarm system for burglary, fire, water or even gas is available and can be expanded with reasonable effort, at least the core areas of IT (server rooms, data storage archives, rooms for technical infrastructure u.  .) are included in the monitoring by this system. In this way, dangers such as fire, burglary, theft can be detected early and countermeasures initiated. In order to ensure this, the forwarding of the messages to an office permanently occupied (Pf rtner, security and security service, fire brigade, etc.) is unavoidable. It must be ensured that this body is also able to respond technically and personally to the alarm. Here, the switch-on guidelines of the respective institutions and the requirements of DIN EN 50518 emergency call and service control centers are to be observed.

A concept for hazard identification, transmission and alerting should be developed for the various building areas. This must be adapted to changes in use. A hazard detection system is a complex overall system that must be planned and installed according to the building and the risk. Planning, installation and maintenance of a hazard detection system should therefore be carried out by experts. If these are not available in-house, external support should be used. For example, there are a variety of different reporting systems that must be selected according to the security requirements and the environment. For burglary detection z. B. Motion detectors, glass-breakage sensors, opening contacts, video cameras and similar. be used.

The detectors can be interconnected in different ways. Depending on the type and size of the areas to be protected and the applicable guidelines, suitable systems must be selected and installed. When planning or extending a GMA, care should be taken to ensure that the routes for networking are sufficiently dimensioned and that as few changes to the route as possible are made.

In order to maintain the protective effect of the GMA, periodic maintenance and functional testing (see DIN VDE 0833 Part 1-3 Hazard Alarm Systems for Fire, Burglary and Raid) must be provided for.

If no GMA is available or if the existing one can not be used, local hazard detectors can be considered as a minimum solution. These work completely independently, without connection to a control panel. The alerting takes place on site or by means of a simple two-wire line (possibly telephone line) elsewhere.

For the operation of a data center, a GMA for fire and burglary detection must be installed. Further detection areas may make sense depending on the location of the location and its infrastructure.

There are rooms like server room, data archive, which have an increased need for protection. If there is no central GMA, local hazard alarms should be installed there. When using local early detection alarm devices, it must be ensured that an alarm is also detected outside the premises concerned. The message can be made via different routes and should be forwarded to a location that is staffed around the clock. For example, there are solutions that can alarm over the PBX or radio employees via a mobile phone.

Before planning a GMA, a consistent protection concept for the considered building must be developed. When planning security systems for private or commercial properties, it should be clarified with the property insurer whether a reduction of the insurance premium, in particular for burglary theft insurance, is possible.



