#M 1.13 Arrangement of worthy building parts
Responsible for initiation: administration / management, planner

Responsible for implementation: Site Manager, Head of Building Services

Protected rooms or parts of buildings should not be located in exposed or endangered areas:

* Kellerr ume are possibly endangered by water.
* Rooms on the ground floor, facing the public thoroughfares, are at risk due to attacks, vandalism and force majeure (traffic accidents in buildings).
* Rooms on the ground floor with poorly visible ports are at risk of burglary and sabotage.
* Well-visible rooms on the ground floor or in areas with public circulation are at risk as it may allow spontaneous lounging or unwanted information on business-relevant information.
* Rooms below flat roofs are at risk from rainwater.
* Underground parking can bring with it a whole range of risks: poorly visible rear entrances, openly accessible supply lines or IT cabling, but they also often offer unauthorized persons the opportunity to gain inadequate access from cars WLANs access. From the point of view of fire protection, areas in underground garages are also problematic, which are misused as storage space.


As a rule of thumb, it may be said that sheltered areas or areas are better located in the center of a building than in the outside areas.

It is best to include these aspects in the construction planning for a new building or in the occupancy planning when moving into an existing building. For buildings already in use, a corresponding utilization arrangement will often be associated with internal moves. As a substitute, the opportunities arising from any necessary changes in the allocation of space should be used consistently.

If worthy rooms can not be arranged differently than in an exposed location, this should be documented explicitly in the security concept. In addition, additional compensatory measures must be taken to counteract the particular risk.

So z. B. in the cellar, existing electrical hazards or basins of IT are controlled by existing water hazards through comprehensive water detection, thresholding and preparation of drainage measures.



