#M 1.44 Suitable furnishings of a home office
Responsible for initiation: staff council / works council, supervisor, head of building services

Responsible for implementation: building services, employees

For the home office, the use of a private study is desirable. At the very least, the home office should be separable from the rest of the home by a lockable door, so that documents and IT systems located there are located outside the areas in which other residents or visitors are present. In the case of spontaneous visits, the workplace can be left at short notice and protected against unauthorized access.

The equipment should be chosen with ergonomics, safety and health in mind.

This means among other things:

* enough space for furniture and VDU workplace,
* controllable room temperature and sufficient ventilation options,
* Shielding against sources of noise,
* Daylight and sufficient artificial lighting,
* Screen privacy of the monitor, if it could be observed through a window,
* Avoidance of disturbing glare, reflexes or reflections in the workplace and
* Connections for telephone and electricity.


Office IT should be provided by the employer to enforce security policies. Only then can z. B. be excluded by instruction that the IT be used for private purposes.

In the home workplace, the same rules and regulations regarding the design of the workplace (eg setting up a VDU workplace) and the working environment must be observed as in the institution. A domestic workplace must therefore be sufficiently equipped for the respective tasks, ie. not only does it need suitable furniture, but adequate safeguards, such as lockable cabinets, should be available.

Employees with a home-based workplace should be regularly asked if the workplace meets their health and work requirements. Random visits for review by the institution may be made in consultation with the staff.



