#M 1.73 Protection of a data center against unauthorized access
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of Domestic Engineering

A data center is an important central unit and thus a functional unit with special requirements for protection against unauthorized access.

The measures M 2.6 granting of access authorizations and M 2.17 access control and control are the indispensable basis for the protection of a data center against unauthorized access. Regulations alone are not enough here. Compliance with the regulations must be supported by further measures.

Access control in building areas with lower protection requirements is usually limited to checking one of the two criteria possession (eg card) or knowledge (eg PIN). In order to protect against unauthorized access to a data center, it is essential to have strong access control mechanisms to meet the much higher protection requirements.

In the first step, the combined query of at least two of the three criteria possession, knowledge and biometric features comes into consideration. From today's perspective, biometric procedures in unobserved areas are not recommended as the only access control for security areas. The combined query of two criteria ensures with sufficient certainty that the criteria used actually belong to the respective person.

All visitors must be clearly assigned to persons who are responsible for them during their stay and supervise them throughout. The fact that it is acceptable in the normal environment for an authorized person to include other persons, eg. Visitors who simply enter the access protected area are unacceptable for a data center. Here it is necessary to clearly identify every entry of a person. For visitor access, this means that each visitor, for example, receives a personal possession issued to him, such as a visitor badge. The absence of the second criterion is compensated for by associating each visitor card in the system with the person responsible for this visit.

In a data center, every access is to be logged, both by authorized persons and by persons with temporary access authorization. For example, in a visitor's book the access of foreigners to the data center could be documented. The use of a visitor's book can not regulate the access of unauthorized persons, but only document it. A book which is available within the data center and in which the visitor enters without direct control of the correctness of the information by an authorized person has no value in the sense of a strong access control.

In order to prevent an authorized person from taking other persons into the controlled area, the construction of a separating lock makes sense. If this is not possible, appropriate organizational and technical support regulations must be implemented. As a technical support the anti-passback function can be used. Every person who has gained access to an area using the appropriate criteria must also log out when leaving the area. A person who fails to do so will be rejected the next time access is attempted, as it is booked as present in the access control system and therefore can not reenter it. Conversely, a person who has gone along without legitimizing himself is recognized at the exit as not present in the area. Consequences could be, for example, that the source door can not be reopened or that a corresponding reminder to adhere to the access rules is issued.

In addition to the educational effect of an anti-passback function against the Mitgehen can be understood in addition to the in and out safe. This is a not insignificant knowledge advantage in the treatment of security incidents.

The anti-passback exit booking may be limited to querying a single criterion. This could be z. B. be the visitor badge.



