#M 1.75 Fire detection in buildings
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: planner

Measures for constructional and technical fire protection, fire detection and timely alerting in case of fire are elementary measures to protect the health and life of all people who live in a building.

Which measures of the structural and technical fire protection are required for a building, give in Germany the respective valid building regulations. In order to standardize the various state building regulations, the model building code (MBO) was created as a guide. In addition, a fire protection concept appropriate to the size and use of the building must be set up.

It is always true that in buildings, depending on the type of use and the construction method, it can come to existence for various reasons. In order to protect people and to be able to fire a fire in time, its formation must be detected as quickly as possible and the fire must be combated.

For early detection of fire, smoke detectors should be used. Usually, point-type detectors according to DIN-EN54-7 fire alarm systems, Part 7: Smoke detectors - Point detectors according to the scattered light, transmitted light or ionization principle. It is recommended to equip all types of buildings with a sufficient number of smoke detectors.

Local detectors can be controlled and evaluated via a fire alarm panel (BMZ). Detectors of all kinds and a fire alarm system together form the fire alarm system (BMA).

Recommended is a minimum equipment consisting of

* Smoke detectors on the ceiling of all corridors as well
* Smoke detectors on the ceiling of all technical rooms and rooms of the electrical supply (distributions, UPS).
* For larger buildings it is recommended to use a BMZ to which all detectors are connected.
* If an air conditioning system is available, its ventilation ducts must also be monitored. The HVAC system must be able to be switched off centrally by the BMZ in order to prevent fire smoke from being distributed in the building.


It is important to ensure the correct installation of smoke detectors according to the manufacturer's specifications. Planning, construction and operation of a BMA are to be designed in accordance with DIN 14675 fire alarm systems - structure and operation and agreed between the client, building supervisor, fire brigade and, if necessary, insurer.

If a fire alarm control panel is present, all of its messages, including the bother messages, should be kept in a permanent position, eg. B. the Pflortnerloge, accrue.

The functionality of all smoke detectors or all components of a fire alarm system must be checked regularly. Sporadically, some of the detector lines should be manually tested for functionality.

In the case of smoke detection, an alarm must be triggered in the building to ensure that all persons present in the building can perceive it.

In order to ensure a safe exit from the building, it must always be ensured that the intended escape and rescue routes are usable. You must not be restricted by furniture or even electrical equipment such as copiers or printers, which represent a significant fire load, in their prescribed width. The minimum width of escape routes in Germany is specified in the Technical Guideline for Workplaces ASR A2.3 Escape Routes and Emergency Exits, Escape and Rescue Plan. It must be regularly checked that the escape routes are usable and free of obstacles.



