#M 1.22 Material security of cables and distributors
Responsible for initiation: Planner, Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: building services

In rooms with public access or in unclear areas of a building, it may make sense to additionally secure lines and distributors against unauthorized access. This can be achieved in several ways:

* Laying the cables or cable ducts under plaster,
* Laying the pipes in steel armored pipe,
* Laying the cables in mechanically strong and lockable ducts,
* Closure of distributors and
* electrical monitoring of distributors and ducts.


In any case, the number of places where the routed cable is accessible should be kept to a minimum and the length of connections to be protected against unauthorized access should be kept to a minimum.

In particular, the protection of central routes and cables of the electrical supply and the IT cabling must be adapted to the danger situation throughout the entire cable route. In areas such as underground car parks and also in corridors that are used as transport routes, adequate protection against accidental mechanical damage and, if applicable, against acts of sabotage must be taken by a stable sheathing of the route or the cable.

When distributors are closed, controls are required to set access rights to the distributor, distribution of keys and access modalities. Among other things, this must specify what should be done prior to changes to cables or distributors and after such work has been carried out. It must be ensured that changes are agreed and approved and that the documentation is updated.



