#M 1.53 video surveillance
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: planner

The measures for skin protection (see M 1.55 Perimeter protection) and access control can be supplemented by the use of video technology. Video surveillance systems, whether standalone or complementary to other security technologies, are used to achieve the following protection goals:

* deterrence
* Fassadenberwachung
* identification
* monitoring
* alarming
* Detection and localization of hazards
* Schadenverhtung
* Documentation and evaluation of control deviations


When planning a video surveillance is on a consistent embedding in the entire security concept. to pay attention. This is even more true if the monitoring terminals are far away from the area to be protected. A video surveillance without evaluation and alarm mechanisms makes no sense but to deter. The required central technical components must be set up and protected in a suitable environment. If available, they should be connected to a reliable power supply with UPS backup and power backup. The functionality of the video surveillance system should be checked on a regular basis.

Video surveillance can be a very effective support for a Pf rtnerdienstes (see M 1.17 Pf rtnerdienst). A large number of processes can be monitored and controlled from the gate by using suitable camera technology:

* Cameras (usually pan / tilt zoom cameras) can be used to verify the alarm status of other systems (eg burglary alarm system). This makes it possible to assess an alarm message without having to leave the nursery place.
* Cameras can be used to check a given identity (face recognition, license plate recognition). In this way, remote accesses or driveways can be monitored from the central gate and doors or gates opened from there for authorized persons.
* Cameras can be used to check the separation of persons in large-area locks when accessing critical areas such as data centers.
* Cameras can be used to detect movement or change a situation. The camera image is only switched on by a detection sensor if the situation in the monitored area requires the attention of the user of the video system.


When planning or installing a video surveillance, the data protection officer and the personnel or works council should be consulted.



