#M 1.21 Sufficient road dimensioning
Responsible for initiation: building services engineer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: building services

Cable ducts (eg floor ducts, windowsill channels, flatbeds, pipe routes in the outer area) must be dimensioned sufficiently. On the one hand, there must be enough space to make any necessary extensions of the network. On the other hand, in order to prevent cross-talk (interference between cables), it may be necessary to maintain minimum distances between the cables. In particular, in the use of common routes for energy and IT cabling to ensure that the routes are separated by a central bar. Even a simple separate management of power cables and IT cables can usually avoid disruptions to IT.

If it is not possible to build roads with sufficient reserves, at least care should be taken that there is sufficient space in the area of ??the track guidance to accommodate extensions. If wall and ceiling perforations are laid out with sufficient size, it is possible to do without later noise, dirt and cost-intensive work. When using post-installable fireboards, breakthroughs can be prepared in such a way that the protection against fire and smoke is always guaranteed, while at the same time the tracking of cables remains possible at any time.

It should be noted that penetrations through walls with a fire resistance class may only be occupied by 60 % in order to achieve effective partitioning of these openings. If necessary, openings should be provided for later expansions during erection and, for the time being, they should be closed by means of soft bulkheads or fire protection cushions.

It is important that the route dimensioning must always be planned in connection with the selection of the cable types (see M 1.20 Selection of suitable cable types under physical-mechanical view and M 5.3 Selection of suitable cable types under communication-technical point of view). For example, by using several multi-core cables, space can be saved over many small cables. The use of shielded cables or fiber optic cables can prevent cross talk. This means that trouble-free operation can be ensured even on track paths with little space.



