#M 1.14 Self-destructive drainage
Responsible for initiation: administration / management, planner

Responsible for implementation: Site Manager, Head of Building Services

All areas within buildings where water may accumulate and accumulate, or where running or stagnant water is not or may not be detected until late, and where the water may cause harm, should be equipped with a self-contained water circuit Drainage and equipped with water detectors. These areas include. a .:

* Basement, cellar,
* Air spaces under double floors,
* Lichtschchte,
* Heating system.


If the drainage is passive, ie through floor drains directly into the building's sewage system, backflow flaps are indispensable. Without such valves, this drainage becomes a water entry opening when the sewage system is overloaded. After extreme precipitation, in the majority of cases, water enters this cellar via this path. The backflow flaps must be checked regularly for their function.

If passive dehydration is not possible because the level of the sewer system is too high, pumps can be used which are automatically switched on via float switches or water sensors. When using this technique, the following points should be noted in particular:

* The pump capacity must be sufficient.
* The pressure line of the pump must be equipped with a backwater valve.
* Precautions must be taken to prevent the pump from being blocked by co-swirling objects (suction filter etc.).
* The start-up of the pump should be displayed automatically (eg by the caretaker or the building services).
* The function of pump and switch must be tested regularly.
* The pressure line of the pump must not be connected to a sewage pipe that is passed in the immediate vicinity. If this line leaked, the pump would only pump the water in a circle.


To prevent Wasserz. B.In the event of heavy rain from the outside, the condition of the land drainage must also be checked and, if necessary, repaired. If the location or the profile of the site entails particular damage to the building due to surface water, the installation of special water protection doors may be considered.



