#M 1.65 Renewal of IT cabling
Responsible for initiation: Planner, Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: building services

The rapid advancement of information technology and, in particular, the demands made by new IT applications, often lead to considerations in modernizing the IT cabling structure in buildings that have older IT cabling to renew completely.

The effort to replace the existing IT cabling with a completely new secondary and tertiary cabling must not be underestimated. Experience has shown that after an initial consideration of the financial and organizational efforts of a comprehensive modernization project, it is usually decided that existing IT cabling should be used as long as possible.

A comprehensive renewal of the IT cabling should only be undertaken if it can be assumed that the business processes of the institution with the existing IT cabling are no longer sufficiently supported. Significant signs that the existing IT cabling can no longer be used are, for example, the following:

* Subsequent cabling, which is needed to connect additional users, leads to constant disturbances of network operation.
* The existing network suffers from frequent power failures, eg. Short circuits in a token ring or looping due to loose contacts on IBM IVS Type-1 Ethernet cables.
* The existing wiring can no longer withstand the capacity requirements because z. For example, entire floors are connected via IBM IVS type 1 cabling, ie with a maximum payment rate of 10 Mbit / sec.


If the IT cabling is to be renewed, all planning steps must be carried out as in the case of a first-time installation (see M 2.395 Requirements Analysis for IT Cabling). Here, too, the requirements analysis and the estimation of the demand development are at the beginning.

It should be noted that when replacing old type 1 cabling, especially in the tertiary area, it must be checked whether the cable paths remain unchanged, even with new cabling. Since type 1 cables allow a maximum cable length of 150mm, it may be necessary to install additional floor distributors in a suitable location to limit the category  5 or higher cables to a connection l  to a maximum of 100 meters. The connection length is calculated from the length of the tertiary cable plus the length of the patch cable.

If a vacant building is modernized, a pure technical planning can be carried out for the migration. In the case of buildings that are used, for example, as office buildings and not just as storage buildings, modernization planning must be carried out for the migration of existing IT cabling to current cabling technology.

It must specify how new IT cabling can be carried out in the current business operation in such a way that the business operations are minimized as much as possible.



