#M 1.27 Air conditioning of the technology / technical rooms
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: building services

In order to operate IT equipment permanently reliably, it must be ensured that the environmental conditions are kept within the limits specified by the manufacturers. The term air conditioning always used in this context includes the following four areas of air conditioning:

* air temperature
* humidity
* Proportion of fresh air
* Schwebstoffbelastung


The greatest importance is attached to compliance with the temperature limits. Almost all of the electrical energy supplied to IT has to be removed from the area in the form of heat energy. If the normal air and heat exchange of a room is not sufficient, the installation of an additional cooling is required.

In addition to the temperature, the humidity must often be kept within certain limits in order to avoid electrostatic charges (if the humidity is too low) or oxidation and mildew (if the humidity is too high).

The suspended matter content of the air is usually kept sufficiently low by the normal filters in air conditioning systems. Only in heavily polluted ambient air or special hardware, a more extensive filtering is required here. In order to ensure the required air flow, the filters of the air conditioning system must be regularly checked and replaced in good time.

The fourth component of air conditioning, the fresh air admixture, is irrelevant to the actual IT operation. However, to the extent that the air-conditioned areas are designated as workplaces, a fresh air admixture must be provided in accordance with the relevant work regulations.

In order to serve its main purpose, air conditioning must be sufficiently dimensioned. If certain unevennesses in the energy consumption of all IT systems are taken into account, it can initially be assumed that every kilo-volt ampere (kVA) of electrical energy with 0.8 kW to 1 kW thermal load Beech leaves.

The cooling capacity should be dimensioned on the basis of an exact heat load calculation and with a generous power reserve and be easily expandable. The actual heat load in the cooled areas must be checked at regular intervals (approximately every 12 to 24 months) as well as during major conversions of the IT hardware by calculation or measurement , Measurements at different times of day determine whether air humidification or dehumidification is required.

The calculation should be based on rising summer maximum temperatures of up to 40 C outside temperature, which can lead to a higher cooling effort. On the other hand, modern IT devices also allow air temperatures of 30 C and more, so that possibly the cooling effort can be reduced.

Depending on the amount of heat to be dissipated, the range of useful technology ranges from simple splitters (cooling unit in the IT room, outdoor recuperators outdoors) to highly complex air conditioning systems. For each solution, check how it behaves in the event of a short-term interruption of the power supply. While simple splitters switch off briefly, but continue to cool when power returns, this usually looks very different with large air conditioning systems.

Air conditioners are almost never powered by UPS because of their huge power requirements. Therefore, they break down even if there are minor power cuts and switch off. Even if they are powered by NEA and it starts up very quickly, the cooling capacity is by no means immediately available again. For reasons of cooling (inter alia to protect against icing), air conditioning is approached in several steps. It can take up to 10 or even 15 minutes to restore the full cooling capacity.

During this time, IT typically continues to be powered by UPS or NEA, producing waste heat. However, if this heat is not or only insufficiently discharged, the interruption of the cooling can lead to massive overheating damage, even to total precipitation.

If the air-conditioning fails, the room temperature without cooling, depending on the conditions, can clearly exceed 60 ° C after only 3 minutes. This short period of time is usually not even enough to shut down the IT systems in an orderly manner. In any case, it is necessary to consider how long a break in refrigeration can last, what consequences it can cause and what measures should be taken against it.

The usual means here is the formation of a cold storage. This can be either a specially installed ice storage, but it can also be a possibly existing L schwassertank be used. The cooling capacity, which is surplus in normal operation, cools down this storage tank and then uses it as needed. It is thus possible, with a suitably designed air conditioning system, to provide cooling power almost immediately after the power supply returns (irrespective of whether by the RU or the NEA).

In modern data centers, a constantly rising energy density can be observed. Were still in the 1980s 500 W  /  m  (low-density energy) usual, are now 5 to 10 kW  /  m  and more (high-density energy) is nothing unusual.

At high-density energy, the conventional free air cooling from the raised floor through the racks into the room is no longer sufficient. For this purpose, rack-related high-performance cooling systems adapted to the requirements are now available on the market.

An air conditioning unit is connected to at least refrigerant and condensate lines and, if the air is humidified, also connected to a water line. The measure M 1.24 Prevention of water-bearing pipes must therefore be observed in every case. This ensures that leakage in heat exchangers can lead to moisture damage in addition to the elimination of the cooling effect.

In order to maintain the protective effect, regular maintenance of the air-conditioning system should be provided. An additional monitoring device for the air conditioning is recommended.

Occasionally, the control behavior of an air conditioning system, especially in the case of temperature and humidity, runs into marginal areas which one does not yet have to consider as a fault, but which can lead to inexplicable disruptions of the IT. Such shifts in control behavior are often accompanied by changes in IT load, outdoor temperature, or other time-varying parameters. In order to be able to clarify the relationships and thus possible causes in such cases, it is advisable to record the two parameters temperature and humidity in suspected cases in at least one week in 15-minute increments , If it is not possible to do this fully electronically, at least one conventional 7-day thermo-hygrograph should be kept ready for use at any time.

The back coolers of an air conditioner should be protected against direct lightning when installed outdoors. If there are high or very high availability requirements, the recooling units should not be accessible to anyone and, if necessary, materially protected against sabotage.

The air-conditioning technology must be taken into account in emergency planning (see module B 1.3 Emergency Management).



