#M 1.78 Safety concept for building use
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, planner

In order to develop a practicable and economical security concept for the use of a building, the protection requirements of the business processes operated there and the fundamental protection goals, which frequently result from the business activity, must be determined , Such protection goals may be, for example, the protection of economic assets, special protection of some or all employees against attacks, or access or content protection for particular areas or individual rooms of the building.

In a building, many different safety aspects have to be taken into account, from fire protection to electrical systems to access control. Depending on the size of the institution and the buildings, there may be different sources of responsibility for this. Therefore, the different roles and tasks must be coordinated. The persons in charge should coordinate with one another in order to select adequate security measures for the different areas based on the protection objectives.

It is a good practice to first consider zones for planning buildings (see M 1.79 Building safety zones). Many protection goals can be achieved in that it is neither necessary nor possible to move directly from a low-security zone directly to one with a higher security level. In this case, the spatial distribution should first be coordinated with the intended use of the building (see M 1.13 Arrangement of desirable building parts). Between different security zones, clearly identifiable and as easily as possible secured transitions should be created. Admissible transitions between the zones are then carried out according to the protection requirement. Inadmissible transitions are either prevented or particularly secured. For example, escape doors from security zones with a higher level of security must be secured in the outer area in such a way that unauthorized access from the outside to the inside is prevented. Windows and access must be protected according to their protection requirements (see M 1.10 Safe doors and windows).

In each safety zone, only business processes should be operated whose protection requirements correspond to those of the safety zone. It should only be accessible to those whose tasks require it. The access to the security zones must be controlled according to their protection requirements, so that no unauthorized person can enter these areas.

This consideration must almost always be supplemented by further measures against unauthorized intrusion or creeping. An overview of this is provided by measure M 1.19 Burglary protection.

If the building has public or semi public areas or if. If, for example, it is possible to inspect the building through window fronts in the street area, then M 1.12 should be used to prevent avoidance of position information on valuable building parts.

Wherever the protection of the contents of the building, be it goods, be it the technical infrastructure, is particularly required, the security concept must consider the protection against water. The measure M 1.14 Self-effec- tive dehydration gives hints to this.

All preventive or damage-reducing measures coordinated with the protection objectives must be supplemented by detection measures (see M 1.18 Hazard Alarm System). The building protection concept is only complete when the relevant hazards are counteracted through planning and execution and when monitoring measures are taken to ensure that damage-causing events or accidental or preparatory attempts Protective and safety measures to be overcome as early as possible be noticed. Only then is it possible to take countermeasures.

The security concept for the building must be in line with the overall security concept of the institution. It should be regularly updated, especially if there are changes in the use of the building, such as organizational changes in the institution.



