#M 1.38 Suitable installation of a modem
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

To prevent the misuse of modems, it must be ensured that only authorized users have physical access to them. Misuse means, for one thing, the carrying out of unauthorized data transmissions which can cause costs, entrain viruses or transfer internals to the outside, as well as the unauthorized modification or read-out of the modem configuration can arise.

To secure the physical access to an external modem or a PCMCIA modem, z. B. in the case of a modem that is constantly in use, locking the room or, in the case of a modem used only intermittently, ensuring the safe storage of the inactive modem in a cabinet. The measures of block B 2.3 B roraum / Local workstation must be observed.

An internal modem has a higher intrinsic physical access protection due to its integration into an IT system. Here it would be sufficient to observe the measures of the blocks B 2.3 B roraum / Lokaler Arbeitsplatz or B 2.4 Serverraum.

If access to the internal network is established via a modem or a modem pool, the B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall) block must be observed. Modems must not create access to the internal network, bypassing an existing firewall.

If a modem pool is to provide additional external access to a network protected by a firewall, it must be set up on the non-secure side of the firewall (see also M 2.77 Integration of Servers in the Security Gateway). The modem pool should be located in a secured server room along with the associated server. The measures of block B 2.4 server room are to be observed.



