#M 1.56 Power system
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Department, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: building services

The primary energy supply from the network of a power supply company (EVU) must be supplemented by measures for the emergency supply of the data center itself in the case of increased availability requirements.

The secondary power supply of a data center usually consists of a central UPS for the data center and a network backup system (NEA). If the local conditions and the requirement profile for the availability of the data center allow it, a second feed from the network of a second energy supply company can fulfill this fallback function instead of a NEA.

While a UPS (see M 1.70 Central Uninterruptible Power Supply) is experiencing fluctuations or short-term interruptions in the power supply, a utility backup system will cause extended power outage.

When dimensioning the backup power system, care should be taken to ensure that its nominal power is above the full load operating performance of the data center. This ensures that the emergency power system can provide the required power even if several consumers start up at the same time.

The resources of a NEA must be checked regularly, it should be sufficient for at least 48 hours. With high or very high availability requirements, this value can easily rise to up to 120 hours. When determining the stock quantity, it must be taken into account whether it is technically and logistically possible to refill the equipment within the period of validity. When it comes to the question of technical feasibility, it should be examined in particular with diesel-powered appliances whether turbulence in the tank caused by refueling does not lead to operational faults (eg clogged filters). With the logistical possibility z. B. to check whether the intended refilling may not even be affected by a power failure.

Depending on the availability requirement of the IT supplied via the NEA, a simple NEA may be sufficient or redundant. If a redundant setup is required, (N + 1) redundancy offers sufficient protection against operational malfunction of the NEA itself. If redundancy is also to be ensured during the maintenance of a NEA, an (N + 2) - Build redundancy.

Further explanations on redundancy and the closely related aspects of modularity and scalability can be found in M 1.52 Redundancy, Modularity and Scalability in the Technical Infrastructure.

It is not always possible to install 2 extra units to achieve operational and maintenance redundancy. Since maintenance cases can usually be planned with sufficient flow, the second unit can also be temporarily connected as a mobile NEA if required. A mobile NEA can be kept in the institution itself or rented by an external service provider. Of course, appropriate SLAs must be agreed with the service provider.

In the event of a prolonged failure of the primary power supply, an NEA is indispensable for maintaining IT operations. Their need for protection therefore corresponds to that of the IT that supplies them. Particular attention should be paid to protection against fire and water as well as access by unauthorized persons.

A sensible protection against fire makes it almost indispensable to house the individual units of the NEA in separate fire compartments. This is the only way to prevent a fire from burning out after a short period of time.

In order to maintain the protective effect of the emergency power system, two things are indispensable:

* regular maintenance
* Tests under real conditions.


In order to maintain the protective effect of NEA, it must be regularly serviced. For this, the maintenance intervals of the NEA provided by the manufacturer must be observed. During this service, load and function tests should also be carried out.

Test runs under real conditions are of particular importance. This is the only way to reliably determine whether all the components serving the emergency energy supply work together in a trouble-free manner. The often practiced exercise, switching off the power supply only after the successful launch of the NEA, brings no knowledge of whether in an emergency, automatically everything works out. Only the hard shutdown of the power supply during operation brings the necessary security to recognize whether the emergency power supply also works. Likewise, the way back to normal operation can only be reliably checked by switching on the power supply again and all components automatically go into standby again. Tests should be performed at least once every two years.



