#M 1.52 Redundancy, modularity and scalability in the technical infrastructure
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: planner

The most effective means of ensuring the availability of technical equipment is redundancy. Redundancy means to have something more than what is required for the actual task (from Latin: redundant, to be in abundance). In IT, redundancy also means the existence of functionally equal or comparable resources of a technical system. This immediately reveals the main problem of redundancy: in order to have redundancy, overcapacities must be created.

The modularity describes whether a required technical service is provided by one or more smaller units. Through skillful use of the modularity, the required overcapacity in redundancy can be significantly reduced.

No farsighted planning can be so good that it is not necessary after some time to adapt existing technical systems to a changed, usually increased power requirement. The easier it is to extend a system by simply adding units, the better it is scalable. Scalability can also benefit modularity.

The simplest redundancy is (N + 1) redundancy. With her, the required number of units (N, typically N = 1) is added another. Fills the originally required unit, takes over the additional function. This redundancy offers sufficient protection against malfunction of the technical device itself. The (N + 1) redundancy is therefore also called operational redundancy.



However, if one of the two units is in maintenance and is therefore not ready for operation, redundancy is no longer present. In addition, this model requires an overcapacity of 100% for this simple operational redundancy.

If redundancy is also to be ensured during maintenance, an (N + 2) redundancy must be established. In this case, two additional systems are set aside for the active system (N = 1).



Although now even with maintenance-related failure of one of the three systems is still given a redundancy. However, an overcapacity of 200% is required. Such solutions therefore quickly reach spatial and financial limits.

Here, the modularity provides a very good remedy. Will z. B. instead of the value 1, the value 2 has been selected for N, the structure of an (N + 2) redundancy is already significantly more favorable.



With the same redundancy effect (operational and maintenance redundancy), the overcapacity is reduced from 200 % to 100 %. If the modularity z. B. extended to (N = 4), the picture looks even more favorable:



To cover the basic load, 4 units are available for each 25% of the required power. Another two 25% units are operating and maintenance redundancy. The overcapacity is only 50%.

The higher the value for N is driven, the lower the overcapacity. It is clear that this path can not be taken endlessly. Although the costs for the overcapacity are reduced by the modularity. At the same time, however, the costs of housing the units are rising. It is necessary to house and supply all units (6 in the last example) so that an external event does not affect all units at the same time.

The modularity automatically includes the advantage of scalability. As soon as the demand for power increases, another 4% can be added to the 4 units at 25%. In the (N = 1) variant, doubling the initial system would be necessary to maintain the redundancy principle.



Another advantage of the modularity is that the remaining capacity is greater if more than 2 units fail.

With an (N + 2) redundancy, it is ensured that if two units fail, the remaining capacity of 100% is sufficient to continue normal operation. If (N + 2) with (N = 1) a third unit actually fails, the remaining capacity is zero. If, on the other hand, N is set to 4, and of the 6  units that are now present in (N + 2) redundancy, in fact 3 is missing, at least a residual capacity of 75 % is available. With appropriate load management, a fairly trouble-free operation can thus be maintained.



Because of the limited resources available, it is not always possible to install 2 additional units to achieve operational and maintenance redundancy. Since maintenance cases can usually be planned with sufficient flow, the second unit can also be temporarily connected as a mobile unit if required.

Such a mobile unit can be kept in the institution itself or rented by an external service provider. For this purpose, appropriate SLAs must be agreed with the service provider and the necessary connection points must be prepared.



## Examples 
* When using air conditioning systems, sufficient redundancy should be provided. If 6 pieces are required by a component, 7 should be procured. Thus, load peaks, z. B. be caught in hot summers and in case of failure of a device or during maintenance, the availability of the air conditioning is maintained overall.
* It should also be checked for communication links in which areas redundancies must be provided (see also M 6.18 Redundant routing). This is all the more true if central network nodes or central active components are located in uncontrolled areas.
* In a data center, the power supply must be redundant. Recommendations can be found in M 1.56 emergency power system. If the secondary power supply is not located in an adjacent fire compartment, consider redundant wiring of the power supply.




