#M 1.5 Galvanic separation of external lines
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: building services

Some malfunctions that adversely affect the proper functioning of IT, and thus their availability and integrity, are handled by electrically conductive media. Particularly relevant here are couplings of interference signals of different origin as well as overvoltages due to lightning or switching operations. These faults can be quite effectively prevented if external cables are galvanically separated and thus the electrical propagation path of the fault is interrupted, although this is not always possible.

In the normal power supply and with copper-based data transmissions, the use of isolating transformers would indeed be a galvanic isolation. However, surging voltage peaks and other interference signals would also be transmitted one-to-one. Only the bandpass effect of a transformer would possibly reduce the disturbance somewhat.

Due to the fact that isolating transformers only have a limited effect and since these can not generally be used in data lines, the above-mentioned galvanic isolation is not relevant in practice. Instead, the risks of voltage surges and overvoltages on the power supply and copper-based data lines can be sufficiently reduced if the overvoltage protection measures are implemented. More information can be found in M 1.25 overvoltage protection.

For data lines, the use of optical fibers (LWL) instead of copper lines, or at least the interruption of the copper line by an optocoupler as a galvanic isolation, on.

Other media lines (coolant and condensate of a cold water supply, normal water or gas pipes, etc.) must of course also be considered. If the conveyed medium itself is electrically conductive, ie water (also the main constituent of cooling liquids), then it is hardly expedient to interrupt the otherwise performed in copper or steel piping by plastic. Here, too, only the relevant measures of overvoltage protection apply.

Only with gas lines, a non-conductive pipe section can cause a real galvanic separation. However, since gas lines are generally not to be laid in IT areas in any case, the possibility of the measures for overvoltage protection is also reduced.

Stand: 14. EL Stand 2014



