#M 1.51 Fire load reduction
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT, Planner

High fire loads arise. For example, the concentration of IT systems, the wrong choice of building materials, highly flammable office equipment and large quantities of paper. In many cases, such fire loads can be easily avoided.

For data centers - as well as for other buildings - the reduction of unnecessary fire loads should already be considered in the planning phase. Non-flammable materials are to be preferred for removal (building material class A).

In order to ensure safe operation from the point of view of fire protection and not to exceed limit values, a comprehensive calculation of the later fire loads should be carried out already in the planning phase of buildings. The fire classes of the facilities or building material classes of the materials must be taken into consideration. This avoids later difficulties in the fire protection acceptance by building supervisory authorities and fire brigade.

Even during operation, it must be ensured that fire loads are reduced. Unnecessary fire loads must be removed promptly. For example, in the current data center operation, care must be taken to ensure that fire loads in the raised floor are removed in the form of cables that are no longer needed. From B ror umen files no longer needed should be removed and stored in specially designated archives.

One of the most common examples of unnecessary fire loads in rooms used for IT is packaging material such as cardboard or polystyrene. Remove packaging material from the IT room immediately and transport it to the designated storage room when it is still needed.

The regular disposal of waste, especially waste paper and packaging waste, is active fire protection.



