#M 1.43 Secured installation of active network components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, planner, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Head of Domestic Engineering

To ensure the tamper-proof operation of a network, it is necessary to operate active network components (such as routers, switches, ISDN routers) in a secure environment. This can either be a server room (see block B 2.4 server room) or, if no separate server room is available, a server cabinet (see block B 2.7 Protective cabinets). Unauthorized persons should not be given unattended access to the installation site.

It should be noted that manufacturers of protective cabinets often use standard locks, so that all cabinets can be opened with any key from the cabinet manufacturer. Therefore, if necessary, the standard lock of a protective cabinet must be replaced with an individual lock.

In addition, the devices should be set up so that they are protected against electromagnetic or magnetic fields. In addition, they should be equipped with control mechanisms that signal that the permissible tolerances for humidity and temperature have been exceeded.

Protection of routers and switches against unauthorized access is also very important because many devices are aware of password recovery procedures for resetting passwords, most of which provide physical access to the devices  ten (console connection). Often the devices also have PCMCIA slots: Corresponding PCMCIA cards can be used for the general storage of data and offer a convenient way to exchange configuration data, to carry out updates or to import image files ,

The serial console interface (RS-232 port) allows connection of a PC or terminal for administration or configuration work. The password for access to the console must be stored in writing in a safe place (see also M 2.22 Storing the password).

In addition, the risks of theft, vandalism and unauthorized switching off of the device must be prevented.



