#M 1.26 Emergency switch
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: building services

In rooms, such as server or technology rooms, in which electrical devices are operated in such a way that z. B. due to their heat dissipation, high equipment density or the presence of additional fire loads, there is an increased risk of fire, the installation of an emergency stop switch should be considered. However, as personnel are required to operate the emergency stop button, they can only be used in areas where people are present or usually present. In non-sporadic or occupied areas an emergency shutdown by means of fire detection is much more effective.

When the emergency stop button is pressed, the fire is deprived of an essential source of energy, which can result in their being lost by small or incipient hands. But at least the risk of electrical voltage when extinguishing the fire is eliminated.

It should be noted that uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) automatically take over the power supply when the external power supply is switched off and the connected devices remain live. Therefore, when installing an emergency stop switch, make sure that the UPS is also turned off and not just disconnected from the external power supply.

The emergency stop switch should be placed inside the room next to the entrance door (possibly with position indication outside the door) or outside the room next to the door. However, it must be remembered that this emergency stop button can be activated accidentally or intentionally even without danger. Therefore, the emergency stop switch with a cover against accidental operation should be protected.

If an emergency stop switch is required by the fire department, this can be implemented as a fire department key switch. This means that it can be ruled out as far as possible that he is accidentally or accidentally authorized to act.



## Examples 
* Has it been checked for all technical and IT rooms whether the installation of an emergency stop switch makes sense?
* When installing an emergency stop switch, is it considered that not only the external power supply but also the UPS is turned off when it is operated?
* Are all emergency stop switches protected against unintentional actuation?




