#M 1.29 Suitable installation of an IT system
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: users, building services

When setting up an IT system, various preconditions should be observed that improve the safety but also the service life and reliability of the technology and take ergonomics into account (see also M 3.9 Ergonomic workplace). Some are mentioned here:

* An IT system should be set up as much as possible so that only the authorized users can view the screen contents. At a location near a window or door, screen activity may be observed from outside.


* To prevent IT systems from being manipulated, they should be set up so that only authorized persons have access. IT systems in areas where there are often external parties must be protected by additional measures against theft and tampering.
* An IT system should not be installed in the immediate vicinity of the heater to prevent overheating.
* An IT system should not be exposed to direct sunlight.


* Dust and dirt should be avoided as the mechanical components (removable media drives, mechanical mouse, hard drives) may be compromised.
* The place of installation should be chosen in such a way that damage due to external influences such as floods, pipe breaks, increased humidity, electrical interference and electromagnetic radiation are avoided as far as possible.


All employees should be aware of which adverse effects are detrimental to IT systems so they can help avoid them. These include z. B. Dirty food or drinks, cigarette smoke or ash, but also the incorrect use of cleaning agents.

Depending on the environment, it may also be useful to use additional tools to protect the IT, such as. Covers for keyboards or screens that prevent lateral view.



