#M 2.309 Security policies and regulations for mobile IT use
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

IT systems deployed outside of one's own institution are exposed to more risks than those located within protected areas. Nevertheless, there are a variety of ways to protect mobile IT systems on the move. In order for these options to be used, a security policy should be drawn up which describes all the security mechanisms to be implemented. In addition, users should be provided with a short and clear leaflet for the secure use of mobile IT systems.



## Examples 
* The users must be informed about which information can be processed with mobile IT systems on the way. The data should be classified accordingly to make restrictions transparent to the users (see also M 2.217 Careful classification and handling of information, applications and systems). Service secrets may only be processed on mobile IT systems if suitable and released security mechanisms are used for this purpose.
* Data that requires a high degree of security (for example, quotes, design data, company data) should always be encrypted on the mobile IT system.
* When using mobile IT systems, it must be determined whether mobile employees can access internal data of their institution when they are on the go. If this is intended, this access must be adequately protected (see also M 5.121 Secure on-the-go communication) .15.122 Secure connection of laptops to local networks).
* It must be clarified whether these can also be used for private purposes, for example for private writing or a game after work.
* Users should be advised of how to use mobile IT systems carefully to prevent loss or theft or to ensure a long service life (eg battery care, storage outside B) -ro or living space, sensitivity to high or low temperatures).
* The management, maintenance and transfer of mobile IT systems should be regulated.
* Each time a user changes, all required passwords must be forwarded securely (see M 2.22 Storing the password).




