#M 2.237 Planning partitioning and replication in Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

As a scalable directory service, eDirectory provides the ability to partition parts of the directory database into partitions and distribute them to different eDirectory servers. This shortens the average access times since the search may need to extend to a specific partition rather than the entire directory tree. In addition, it increases the reliability, since in a server failure only the partition located there and not the entire directory database is affected. Furthermore, partitioning allows the data to be distributed to appropriately secured servers in accordance with a previously made classification.

When planning the partitioning, the rules for partitions defined by eDirectory must be taken into account.



Partitions can in turn contain subpartitions, which were formed according to the defined rules. On partitions different operations can be performed, eg. Creating, merging, moving or canceling one of said operations.

In addition to the directory tree partitioning mechanism, eDirectory provides the ability to replicate parts of the directory tree to other eDirectory servers. In the terminology of eDirectory it is spoken by Replicas. Each partition has a so-called master replica. This forms the center of the respective partition. The creation of new subpartitions or new replicas of the current partition depends on the availability of the master replica server. There are several ways to replicate the directory data to other servers:

* Read / Write Replica: read / write replicas of a partition can be accessed in the same way as the master replica itself. In particular, in a read / write replica it is possible to modify the data. The information is automatically exchanged between the individual replicas. If the server holding the master replica completes permanently, a read / write replica can be reconfigured to the master replica.
* Read-only replica: These replicas only receive synchronization updates from other replicas. Clients can not change the contents of a read-only replica.
* Filtered Read / Write Replica: These servers only replicate part of an eDirectory partition. The selection of the replicated content is possible both at the level of the object classes and at the level of individual attributes. The content of this replica can be modified by clients. If the information is changed, the content is automatically synchronized with the other replicas.
* Filtered Read-Only Replica: This type of replica contains only a selection of the entire partition, which can not be changed by clients. There are the same options for selecting the content to be replicated as with Filtered Read / Write Replicas.


The types of replicas described above are set up and configured manually. The replication itself runs automatically. Another type of replication is the subordinate reference replicas. However, these are created and managed by the eDirectory system itself. They contain only jump addresses, in order to be able to dissolve object names across partition boundaries efficiently (so-called tree walking).

When planning the partitions, the following points should be noted:

* Consideration of protection needs: The information held in the directory should be classified according to its protection needs. This classification should be used to distribute the objects to appropriately protected servers. It is important to ensure that the content of the security container is stored on a sufficiently secure server, since this is sensitive information. For example, the security container stores the key management objects and the security policies.
* Required availability of the directory service: To improve the load distribution, a sufficient number of replicas of the directory data must be created on eDirectory servers.
* Distribution of the administration tasks: In order to separate the roles of the administration tasks with the separation of the data management, the administration tasks should be distributed to individual partitions.
* Compliance with eDirectory partitioning rules. The essential rules are: Each partition starts hierarchically with a single container object. The partition must be a contiguous sub-tree of the eDirectory tree. Different partitions may not overlap. The name of the partition must be the Fully Qualified Distinguished Name (FQDN) of the root object of the partition.
* The exact contexts of the servers holding partitions / replicas. If the structure is too shallow, a high amount of internal replication is required. In addition, individual - currently not available - servers lead to corresponding status messages for all other eDirectory servers integrated in the replication ring.


When planning replicas, the following points should be considered:

* The requirements for the availability and reliability of the directory service must be used to derive the specifications for the number of replicas to be created.
* The required system performance leads to the planning of the load distribution.
* It must be decided whether the definition of filters for Replicas can provide a safety benefit. This is mainly due to the possibility of a separate data storage according to a previously made classification of the data. It can thus be realized the basic principle that each eDirectory server only holds the data which it requires (or which the accessing users or applications need). However, this safety gain can be ineffective if the configuration is not thought-through. A potential disadvantage may be system performance. If requested data is not available or not visible on an eDirectory server because it is hidden by corresponding filter rules, it will continue to search in the background (if permitted). An inadequate configuration of the filter rules can therefore have a negative impact on system performance. Example: An eDirectory server is located on the intranet of an organization and a subset of the directory data held there should also be available on the Internet. A possible solution is to set up another eDirectory server in the demilitarized zone (DMZ) between the intranet and the Internet with a filtered replica that only contains the directory data that is actually needed on the Internet.


* The data management must be planned. This is about the most detailed planning possible, which data should be accessible by whom and from where. For example, filtered replicas can be used to enforce the requirements.




