#M 2.359   Monitoring and management of storage solutions
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to be able to detect and rectify error situations and safety problems in a timely manner, it is necessary to monitor the ongoing operation of memory solutions. The prerequisite for such a monitoring is the possibility of evaluating data from various sources (servers, switches, storage systems, etc.).

A storage solution consists of a large number of components that are to be monitored:

* Data about the state of the hardware of the storage solution,
* Data on the utilization of the storage solution and
* Data over the network infrastructure (IP and FC)


All data should be checked as to whether the requirements of the operating manual have been implemented or complied with.

An efficient analysis of the data is usually only feasible by using special applications for automated monitoring and reporting. In the process, a large amount of data has to be collected and evaluated. Therefore, by using or using an NTP server, a uniform date / time setting should be enforced on all devices. Important messages sent on the basis of SNMP can be filtered out by the use of message filters and thus recognized more quickly.

Special monitoring products allow both status monitoring and adjustment of settings in real-time depending on the level of impact. The network administrator can be warned automatically in the event of problems before they lead to failures.

Full storage solution monitoring (FC / IP ports, network and storage systems) and environmental parameters enable early detection and isolation of faults and an indication of the availability and performance of the entire environment.

In this context, the following components must be monitored:

* The applications that process data in a storage solution or have an auxiliary function. These include the backup software and anti-virus software
* The amount of user data that is processed by applications and then transported via the storage network from the server to storage systems (capacity management)
* The network hardware needed to transport the data
* The storage hardware (disk systems, tape drives) needed to store the data
* The network - In an NAS system, the TCP / IP network is to be monitored, with a SAN the in-memory network and also the local network used in addition to the control and management.


A further option for monitoring storage solutions is the use of so-called Security Information and Event Management solutions (SIEM). These are able to summarize event, threat and risk data. On this basis, they can provide security information and ensure rapid response to security incidents as well as log management and compliance reporting.

In addition to the monitoring of resources, the management of individual components and the overall system should be possible from a central point. Systems used to control or control the storage solutions are often referred to as storage management systems. Ideally, management systems have the ability to access a reporting history. In this way, events and disturbances that lie in the past can be investigated at a later date and corresponding findings serve to stabilize the entire system.



## Examples 
* Are there documented definitions and processes for monitoring and managing the storage solution?
* Is there a central point to which information from different storage solutions is reported?
* Are news filters in use to filter out and better communicate the essential news?
* Have specifications been made and documented that regulate the monitoring of contractually agreed SLAs with the service provider?




