#M 2.291 Security reporting and audits on z / OS
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, auditor

To monitor all security-related activities, a process must be set up. This must specify which safety reports are regularly compiled and how deviations from the specifications are handled. These safety reports should be used as information for the auditor.

In addition, safety audits must be regularly carried out to increase the operational safety of a z / OS system. Such audits will check whether the required security settings and procedures are adhered to. Specifications for this can be found in M .2.288 Creating security guidelines for z / OS systems.



## Examples 
* Using the RACFICE tool It is reasonable to use IBM's ICE tool (RACFICE) based on IBM's DFSORT, using pre-made reports, customizing existing ones, or creating new ones. For example, the SMF sets may fail access attempts Resources, permitted accesses due to special authorizations (OPERATIONS) and failed access attempts with incorrect passwords are generated as reports. From the RACF database, for example, the file profiles can be selected according to UACC (Universal Access), blocked user IDs and profiles used in the last 90 days were changed when reports are generated.
* Use of the RACF program DSMONEs should consider using the RACF program DSMON as a basis for further reporting. In any case, this is recommended if you do not want to use a real-time monitor to control changes to vital z / OS definitions.
* Use of Independent Vendor ToolsThe evaluation of the information logged in the SMF records requires special system knowledge, such as: B. the SMF program function. It is therefore advisable to use separate tools to evaluate these data sets. Corresponding programs are available from various ISVs (Independent Software Vendors).
* Using a Real-Time Monitor For specific security requirements, it is important to consider whether a batch-based reporting system is up-to-date, or whether a real-time security detection monitor is not more useful. The SMF blocks are directly intercepted via SMF exits (IEF083, IEF084, IEF085) and routed to a monitor program that can carry out the analysis and display (see also measure M 4.209 Secure basic configuration of, for example, Sect / OS systems). Important information for real-time monitoring is eg. B.Changes toAPF filesUse of identifiers with the attribute SPECIAL or OPERATIONASallowed access on the basis of the attribute OPERATIONSMultiple access attempts with incorrect password usage of the notuser




