#M 2.431 Regulation of the procedure for the deletion or destruction of information
Responsible for the initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer, IT manager, organization manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

The appropriate procedure for securely deleting or destroying data depends on the type of data carriers as well as the protection requirements of this information. The information should therefore be classified according to its protection needs (see M 2.217 Careful classification and handling of information, applications and systems).

For a variety of reasons, such as partnerships or outsourcing services, sensitive information is passed on to third parties, both on electronic data carriers and in analogue form. Prior to this, it is necessary to stipulate by contract at what time and in which way these data carriers are to be returned or destroyed in full.

A large number of laws, regulations and regulations that can vary greatly depending on the type of institution and its business processes (see also M 2.340 compliance with legal framework conditions) must be complied with in the deletion or destruction of data. The corresponding storage and delays for the various types of data must be identified and observed.

For the various types of data carriers, appropriate methods must be used to safely delete the information contained on it or destroy the entire data carrier. It is important for the institution to have an overview of the types of data carriers used. It is possible to differentiate between analogue data media such as paper, color coding of typewriters and fax machines as well as digital data carriers (electronic, magnetic, optical). In practice, analogue data carriers are often disposed of in an uncontrolled manner, for example via paper baskets, since they are considered to be biomaterial without any special protection requirements.

The procedure necessary for the secure deletion or destruction of information should be laid down for employees in a security policy (see M 2.432 Guideline for the deletion and destruction of information). Which methods and devices should be selected for the various data carriers is described in M 2.167 Selection of suitable methods for the deletion or destruction of data. In larger institutions, it may be helpful to provide forms that request all relevant information and actions to be taken (such as employee name, type of data stored, reason and method of disposal).

As the technology and design of digital data carriers constantly changes and evolves, the procedures and procedures for reliable deletion and destruction must be constantly adapted.

If external service providers are used for the destruction of data carriers, the entire disposal, from the collection points to the transport until destruction by the service provider, must be adequately secured (see M 2.436 Destruction of data carriers by external service providers) Service provider).

In addition, it makes sense to sensitize employees regularly for the careful handling of safety-critical information and IT components (see M 2.217 Careful classification and handling of information, applications and systems).

In order to delete sensitive files selectively, care must be taken that not only the current version but also all previous versions, temporary files, file fragments, etc. are deleted. Those responsible must know where the operating system and application software create copies of the processed data. Structured data management makes it easier to find the information again (see M 2.138 Structured Data Management). However, experience shows that information is often overlooked if data carriers are selectively deleted before being forwarded to external parties. It is therefore to be discouraged from selective deletion.

If data media need to be repaired, sensitive data may fall into the wrong hands if the media has not been securely erased. The external service provider must be selected carefully (see M 2.252 Choice of a suitable outsourcing service provider). A written assurance must be given that the information on the respective data carriers is neither read nor copied, unless this is necessary for the execution of the repair order.

When erasing and destroying information, it is important to ensure the safe disposal of data carriers containing copies of the data to be erased. These include, for example, backup data carriers but also RAID systems. After the commissioning of an IT system, the corresponding data backup media must also be deleted or made unusable as soon as the data stored thereon are no longer needed.

Note: If the data is encoded directly by a suitable encryption product when it is stored on digital data carriers, many of the problems mentioned will not arise at all. For laptops, a complete encryption of the data is generally recommended. With server architectures a complete encryption is often not feasible. Depending on the technology, a complete encryption of the server disks can bring more effort and costs than a later destruction of the disks. This particularly applies to SAN / NAS architectures.

Even with analog data carriers, copies are often found, for example, old files in storage rooms that have not been used for a long time, which also have to be destroyed.

In the case of a high or very high protection requirement of the information, deletion and destruction must be recorded, above all in the context of the elimination of analogue and digital data carriers.



