#M 2.354 Use of a high-availability SAN solution
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

If systems and applications whose data are to be stored in the SAN have very high protection requirements in terms of availability, the use of a highly available SAN solution must be considered.

The term highly available here denotes a high resistance to damage events. Highly available solutions are commonly referred to as disaster-tolerant. In terms of an institution's stored data, this means that a storage system is constructed using SAN components such that

* all data is kept in two locations,
* the SAN components of the storage solution are coupled at the two sites, but are not dependent on each other
* each component is redundantly configured,
* a damage event at one site does not affect the functionality of the components at the second site.


Indicators indicating whether such an architecture is necessary and appropriate are:

* The maximum recovery time objective (RTO) indicates the period of time that may elapse before IT systems are again sufficiently available to support business processes after a damage event.
* The maximum tolerable data loss (RPO: Recovery Point Objective): From the age of the last available consistent data set, the amount of lost work can be calculated after the occurrence of a damage event. The maximum tolerable loss of data basically describes the amount or complexity of work associated with a costly effort for the institution, without loss of business criticality.
* The affected environment includes the spatial extent of the loss event. Only if a location with its systems is beyond the impact of the event will it remain useful.


SAN storage solutions are a key technology to meet very high requirements for the availability of IT:

* Upon receipt of a powerful coupling, they can be separated to such an extent that precaution is also possible against events that have a high impact.
* The possible high-performance coupling can be used to minimize or completely exclude the maximum data loss.


However, the maximum downtime of an application can only be partially affected by the configuration of the storage solution. Since downtime can only be measured from the user's point of view, it depends not only on the availability of the stored data, but also on the availability of the other IT infrastructure (servers, network, PCs, etc.). ...), which are supplied with data by SAN components. In addition, times up to the alarm and arrest times to eliminate the disturbance are considered.



## Examples 
* Are the availability requirements for the storage solution recorded in writing?
* Do the replication mechanisms meet the availability requirements?
* Will the high-availability configuration of the storage solution meet the availability requirements?
* Is there a test and consolidation system?




