#M 2.398 User policies for handling printers, copiers, and multifunction devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user, IT security officer

The secure use of printers, copiers and multifunctional devices can not be achieved by technical measures alone. In addition, appropriate policies must be set for administrators and users.

The Administration Guideline should describe all security mechanisms to be implemented for printers, copiers and multifunction devices. This document is intended for qualified personnel.

The guidelines for users for the safe use of printers, copiers, and multifunction devices should be summarized in a clear leaflet. This leaflet should be posted at all sites of this equipment.

The following aspects have to be considered:

* Access to the copier and printer compartments: If possible, access to the rooms should be restricted with the printers and copiers (see also M 1.32 Suitable installation of printers and copiers). It makes sense to restrict access to, for example, the employees of a department or the users of a floor. The users are to be informed about the access restrictions and the admitted persons.
* Handling of non-collected documents: Frequently printed documents are not collected or misprints are not disposed of. All users must be informed that they must pick up their printouts in a timely manner. Documents that can not be assigned to a user should be collected or better directly destroyed with a shredder.
* Handling sensitive documents: Information classified as highly confidential should not be printed on general accessible printers or duplicated on copiers. Officially protected documents (classified information) must be protected in accordance with the applicable regulations and instructions.
* Authentication on the device: If authentication is to be carried out directly at the printer, copier or multifunction device (see M 4.299 Authentication for printers, copiers and multifunction devices), users must be instructed in this procedure.
* Distribution of printouts: If network critical printers often print safety-critical information, it should be considered that the printouts should be distributed to the respective recipients by trustworthy persons. This approach is an alternative to authentication on the device and has the advantage that only these people need access to the respective printers.
* Selection of a standard printer: With several available printers, the users on their client can usually preselect a standard printer for all applications. This feature provides users with the convenience of being able to print without having to enter additional information on their preferred printer. Additional information can be used to redirect the printout to another device. The default printer should be a logical (virtual) device, such as a print preview program or a PDF generator. This provides some protection against information being printed unnoticed, for example because the print button was inadvertently actuated in an application.
* Clearing Copy Memory: One advantage of using digital copiers is that a document that has been scanned once can be printed as many times as you like. So that no information is accessible to unauthorized persons, the temporary memory used for this must be deleted after use. For many copiers, users can only do this manually, so appropriate instructions and instructions must be attached to the equipment.


Every user should familiarize themselves with the leaflet on the safe use of printers and copiers. Therefore, the leaflet should be posted in each copier and printer room.



