#M 2.333 Secure use of meeting, presentation and training rooms
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: user, head of organization

For the use of these rooms, there should be firm rules in every organization. This should include, but is not limited to, general user behavioral notices, as well as those for the use of both fixed and shared devices.

Among others, the following aspects should be considered:

* External participants of meetings or training sessions should not be left unattended outside the meeting and training rooms (see also M 2.16 Supervision or assistance of third parties).
* It has to be clarified under which conditions External IT systems such as mobile phones or laptops may be used.
* Existing landline telephone connections must be protected against misuse, for example by dialing external numbers only after entering a password.
* The room should have contact details for problems such as IT support or key management. The contact persons must be reachable at any time during the usual office hours.
* If a beamer and other equipment are permanently installed in the room, the necessary security measures to protect them from theft must be taken. For example, these can be provided with anti-theft devices such as steel cables. Lockable cabinets for materials also make sense.


* At the end of each event, remove any material that may contain sensitive information. Therefore, z. B. used Flipchart paper taken and tablets are cleaned. Even in the trash landed designs may not be forgotten.
* In meeting, event and training rooms, permanently installed IT systems, such as B. Training computer available. Please note the following: The IT in meeting and training rooms must be configured and administered according to the requirements (see also M 4.225 Use of a logging server in a security gateway). It must be determined who is responsible for the administration of the training computers. In addition, contact persons must be named for problems that are always welcome. These must be able to help in the short term. In rooms with training computers, nothing should be brought along that could impair the functionality of the IT systems, ie neither drinks nor sticky break bars. This also means that coffee breaks must take place outside the room.
* There must be clear rules for access to LAN and TC interfaces from meeting and training rooms.
* In addition, information on escape routes and the correct behavior in case of fire should not be forgotten (see M 1.6 Compliance with fire protection regulations).


In the event of problems such as missing paper for flipcharts or defective devices, the responsible contact person should be informed so that they can be corrected promptly.

In the case of meeting, event and training rooms, two solutions are in principle in conflict for the closure of such rooms. If the room is kept permanently closed except during use, the IT inside it is well protected against a number of dangers, but spontaneous use of the room is not possible. On the other hand, constantly open meeting, event and training rooms can be used at any time, but at the same time the risk for IT is significantly higher. It also has the advantage that the equipment of the training rooms is more in the desired condition. From the point of view of information security, meeting, event and training rooms are therefore to be kept locked outside the period of use. At the same time, of course, it is important to ensure that access can be made quickly and easily when needed. The keys to the meeting, event and training rooms should be managed by a central body (eg gate or internal service).

In meeting, event and training rooms, there is usually no way to include documents, IT systems and the like separately. Therefore, it should be possible to have such rooms closed or at least supervised by an internal employee, if all participants leave the room.



