#M 2.486 Documentation of the architecture of web applications and web services
Responsible for initiation: Responsible for the individual applications, Head of Development

Responsible for implementation: administrator, developer

The understanding of the software architecture of a web application or a web service is necessary in order to maintain, develop and expand it efficiently and error-free. In addition to the system-specific documentation (see, for example, M 2.25 Documentation of the System Configuration, M 2.31 Documentation of Authorized Users and Rights Profiles and M 2.34 Documentation of the Changes to an Existing System), there are some special features in the documentation of Web applications and Web services take into account.

The documentation must take all components into account. At least the following points should be covered by the specific documentation:

* All dependencies (for example on frameworks, libraries, operating systems, hardware) and interfaces (for example on background systems) should be documented. For web services, interaction with other web services must also be documented.
* Components required for operation that are not part of the web application or the web service must be marked as such (for example, background systems such as a database).
* The documentation must identify which components implement security mechanisms. The following are the security features of web applications and web services that should be considered: user management, roles and permissions, authentication, authorization, session management, logging, and transport security.
* The integration into a possibly existing network infrastructure must be dealt with in the documentation. In this case, the measure M 5.169 System architecture of a web application must be observed.
* The cryptographic functions and methods used must be documented, see block B 1.7 Crypto Concept.


Documentation should be updated and adjusted as the project progresses so that it can be used during the development process and documented decision-making.



