#M 2.379 Software development by end users
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user, IT manager

Many standard programs allow users to develop programs themselves, eg. B. To facilitate routine activities. A typical example of this is the macro programming under Microsoft Word or Access or the provision of programming interfaces in Microsoft Outlook.

The creativity and dedication shown by employees should be welcomed, but it should nevertheless be considered in each institution how to deal with the end user's macro or software development ,

It should be remembered

* that the macro or program makers are generally not trained programmers,
* that the security guidelines of the house should be respected,
* how other users can benefit from it (and who will then take care of the user) and
* How the most spontaneously created programs are maintained and documented.


First of all, the basic decision should be made in each institution as to whether such in-house developments are desirable or not. This must always be documented in the safety guidelines.

If in-house developments are undesirable, the possibility should already be deactivated when installing standard programs (as far as possible).

If in-house developments are necessary, appropriate user guidelines should be developed to ensure minimum security, documentation and quality.

In particular, such a directive should stipulate that:

* the existing rules on data protection and information security are complied with,
* the own developments are carefully documented,
* For self-development, only the software products released for this purpose (eg the macro functionality of a specific Office package) can be used. Installing additional applications or development environment without the permission of the IT department is not allowed.


Also in own developments a lot of working time is invested. Therefore, it should be ensured that in-house developments also benefit other users and then be permanently maintained. Furthermore, a contact person should be present for problems with these in-house developments. In-house developments should also be available to all users in the current version. It therefore makes sense to forward all in-house developments that might be of interest to other employees to the IT department. This can then check whether further distribution makes sense, and can subsequently make any necessary adjustments and offer user support.

The macro-programming must be protected against unauthorized changes. Also, only trusted macros may be used. In addition, the dissemination of development results to unauthorized persons should be prevented. Macro extensions should not be used in the production system until they have been tested and considered safe in an isolated test environment.



