#M 2.469 Controlled decommissioning of components of a terminal server environment
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If terminal servers, clients connected to terminal servers or infrastructure components of a terminal server environment are to be taken out of service, careful planning of the necessary steps is essential.

Analogous to the measure M 2.320 Controlled shutdown of a server is therefore to ensure that

* no important data is lost within the terminal server environment,
* does not interfere with any applications, clients, or downstream services that are connected to the application servers and
* no sensitive data remains on the terminals of the terminal server and client infrastructure.


In particular, it is important to have an overview of what data is stored on the system, where it is accessed, and where it is accessed. In the following, therefore, the points to be taken into consideration from M 2.320 Regulated commissioning of a server in relation to terminal server environments are specified here.

* Scope of data backup: The following information should be backed up regularly: User profiles Information stored on the license serverAuthentication information Session database configuration if available Configuring the Independent Management Architecture (IMA) data store on Citrix system management tools existing predefined, checked and functional system states of the terminal server possibly existing predefined, tested and functional system states of the client


* Replacement system For the maintenance and separation of terminal servers in a terminal server farm, the definition of a standard architecture makes sense. This means that within a terminal server farm only similar server hardware with an identical software version are used. IT systems based on a standard architecture have the advantage that commercial replacement systems and spare parts can be procured or bought in advance can. In the case of a defect, the defective device can be exchanged cost-effectively and promptly.
* User Information Users should be informed as to how and when to shut down the terminal server. If the users have still opened sessions on the terminal server, they must be prompted to quit them beforehand.
* Removing references to the system In order for the terminal server to be shut down, it must first be prevented that users can log on to the system so that no session is terminated abruptly when it is switched off. If load balancers or other internal load distribution systems are used uniformly to distribute the load between different terminal servers, the terminal server to be switched off should be removed from the existing load distribution plans beforehand.
* Deleting the data on the system to be switched offTo avoid that sensitive information can be viewed by unauthorized persons, the following information should be deleted from the terminal server: User profiles Authentication informationCertificates
* If you want to remove not just individual terminal servers, but the entire terminal server environment, delete the following information: sensitive session database data, Independent Management Architecture (IMA) data storage for Citrix systems, Zone Data Collector (ZDC) for Citrix systems , any temporary files like bitmaps on the clients and any caches.
* Deleting backup mediaIt is recommended that you delete all backup media after commissioning. Exceptions are data backups of terminal servers that are used redundantly or that are similar to other terminal servers. In this case, it may be necessary at a later date to return the backed-up information to the remaining terminal servers.
* Removing Other InformationBefore disposing of a terminal server, components such as USB flash drives and memory cards should be removed, and information not stored on the hard disk should be erased. To this belongs. B.Preboot eXecution Environment (PXE) information and BIOS entries. Remote maintenance cards and labels should also be removed.




