#M 2.524 Modeling cloud management
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

This article explains how cloud management is modeled correctly according to the IT-Grundschutz approach. The necessary building blocks of IT-Grundschutz are named and it is described how the various service models (SaaS, PaaS, IaaS) of cloud computing can be mapped in a security concept. To define terms for cloud computing, eg. about the service models (see measure M 4.446 Introduction to Cloud Management).

The building block B 5.23 Cloud Management is addressed to cloud service providers.

In order to achieve adequate overall security for the IT operation of cloud services, all cloud services (with their associated virtual IT systems, networks and other cloud components) must be systematically considered in the security concept. All IT systems, networks, and applications provided by cloud services, which are both operationally accountable and within the scope of the cloud service provider's information security management system, must be considered in structural analysis and modeling according to IT Basic protection procedure should be taken into account.

In the IT-Grundschutz-Approach, modeling refers to the assignment of building blocks to the existing target objects (IT systems, applications, resources etc.). The modeling is done for virtual cloud IT systems, networks and applications according to the same rules as for physical IT systems that are not provided via cloud computing, and the instructions in Section 4.4 Selection and adaptation of Ma  BSI Standard 100-2 IT-Grundschutz Procedure must be observed.

When modeling an information network with cloud management that includes the cloud service provider's administrative activities, the B Management5.23 cloud management module is applied to the cloud management server. It is not modeled for every application, network or IT system in the cloud infrastructure. The cloud management server implements the central measures of cloud management, such as: Access protection, cloud resource monitoring, and orchestration (provisioning and deprovisioning) of cloud resources. Accordingly, it is necessary for all service models to include the module B 5.23 Cloud Management in the modeling.

The scope of the information network differs depending on the service model.

The scope of the information network can also be understood as a border of responsibility: At the border of the information network, the responsibility of the cloud service provider ends and the responsibility of the cloud user ends.



