#M 2.27 Maintenance of a telecommunications system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, PBX manager, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In a TC system, there is a maintenance unit with which the PBX can be configured and administered. In older systems, this can be a special hardware, in newer systems it is usually a control software. From the outside, this unit can be accessed by different means depending on the PBX, for example:

* Via a system telephone, ie a terminal with extended functionality compared to normal terminals,
* Via a computer connected locally to the telephone system (eg via RS232, USB, Ethernet),
* Via a PCimLAN, which has installed special administration software, if the PBX is also connected to the LAN,
* Via a browser of a PC in the LAN, if the PBX is also connected to the LAN.


In the case of an IP system connection, in which the PBX physically belongs to an external provider, the PBX is usually administered via a browser.

The maintenance unit should be configured so that only dedicated maintenance computers can access it. For example, only IT systems with fixed IP addresses can communicate with the maintenance unit. Connection attempts from other IT systems should be rejected. Access to the maintenance computers should also be restricted. For example, they could be placed in a separate security area that unauthorized persons can not enter.

In general, access to the maintenance unit should only be possible after a successful authentication. If possible, the data connection between the devices used for maintenance and the maintenance unit should be encrypted unless it is a connection used exclusively for this purpose (such as a serial cable) ). The devices that are used to maintain and configure the PBX must be secured with passwords or PINs. For this, the measure M 2.11 Control of password usage must also be observed. Not only internal, but also external maintenance staff have to authenticate themselves.

The maintenance of a PBX should be performed by employees with appropriate knowledge, such as trained administrators. If the existing employees lack the necessary knowledge to optimally maintain and administer the PBX, and if they can not be trained in a timely manner, consideration should be given to appointing external experts.

Regardless of who waits for the PBX, it is also necessary to take note of the M 2.4 regulations for maintenance and repair work.



## Examples 
* Are the maintenance accesses of the TK system protected against unauthorized use by technical and organizational measures?
* Can only the maintenance computers communicate with the maintenance unit of the TK system?
* Are the devices for the maintenance and configuration of TK systems protected with passwords or PIN s?
* Is the data connection encrypted with IP-based access to the TK system?




