#M 2.443 Introduction of Windows Vista SP1
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

SP1 stands for Service Pack 1 and is a compilation of software fixes and enhancements for Microsoft's Windows Vista operating system. The SP1 is available for the 32-bit (x86) and 64-bit (x64) versions of Windows Vista.

Microsoft supports the distribution channels Stand-alone Package, Windows Update and Integrated DVD for purchasing the SP1. The table below gives important characteristics for each of these distribution channels.

Table: Distribution Channels of Windows Vista SP1

In order to obtain the SP1, the associated network load for the LAN of the organization must be taken into account. Network utilization is determined by the size of the SP1 and the number of Windows Vista clients that receive the SP1 at the same time.

Before the SP1 is used on a Windows Vista production system, the SP1 must be tested for possible incompatibilities in a test environment.

Furthermore, before installing the SP1 on a Windows Vista client, it must be ensured that the necessary hard disk space is available. The disk space required depends on a variety of factors. These include, for example, the distribution channel of the SP1 on the Windows Vista client as well as the number of languages ??to be supported. The installation routine of the SP1 determines the precise values ??for the necessary hard disk space. For guidance, Microsoft calls 4.5 GB in the case of a stand-alone package with five supported languages ??for the 32-bit version (x86). If necessary, exact information on the required hard disk space must be obtained from Microsoft before installing the SP1.

Before installing the SP1 on a Windows Vista client, make sure you have previously imported the necessary Windows Vista updates. According to Microsoft Knowledge Base article 935509 these are the update 935509 to BitLocker, the update 938371 to install / uninstall the SP1 and the update 937287 to the Windows Vista installation software (as of spring 2008).

In addition to bug fixes and improvements to existing mechanisms, Service Pack 1 also includes some security-related changes or enhancements. These include, for example:

* Warning messages instead of the so far threatening RFM (Reduced Functionality Mode), if certain defaults in connection with the activation of a Windows Vista license were actually or allegedly violated (see M 4.336 Activation of Windows Vista). Systems from Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement and M 4.343 Windows system reactivation from Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement).
* EFS encrypted files can be backed up with the Backup and Restore tool. (see M 6.78 Backup under Windows Clients).
* APIs (Application Programming Interfaces) provide enhanced ways to leverage third-party antivirus software in a 64-bit environment alongside kernel patch protection.
* A multi-factor authentication is supported by a USB stick and a PIN for BitLocker when using the TPM (Trusted Platform Module).
* Encryption of further partitions by BitLocker (see M 4.337 Using BitLocker Drive Encryption) is possible.
* SHA-256, AES-GCM, and AES-GMAC for Encapsulating Security Payload (ESPESP) and Authentication Header (AH), ECDSA, SHA-256, and SHA-384 for Internet Key Exchange (IKE) and AuthIP are supported ,
* The NIST SP 800-90 Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) pseudo-random number generator (PRNG) is available when selecting the available PRNG.




