#M 2.474 Safe commissioning of telecommunications components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Some components of telecommunications equipment store sensitive information during operation, including personal information such as telephone books, contact information, and connection information.

In the case of WLAN components, this includes, in particular, the authentication information for access to the WLAN (compare M 2.390 Decommissioning of WLAN components). OnVoIP components, a variety of sensitive information can be stored depending on the purpose. These include, for example, IP addresses and other information that can be linked to the network structure as well as organization-wide telephone directories with all employees (M 2.377 Safe commissioning of VoIP components).

Locally stored data on the various components that are still needed should either be externally backed up or archived (for example, on magnetic tape, CD or DVD ROMs) or transferred to a backup system. Further information on this topic can be found in the blocks B 1.4 Data backup concept and B 1.12 Archiving.

If components are to be taken out of operation or replaced, it must be ensured that data carriers such as hard disks on which personal data are stored are disposed of safely. This is especially true if the components are discarded and passed on to third parties (for example, sold). Even if a device is handed over to the manufacturer or a service company as part of a warranty replacement or repair, the confidential data must first be made illegible.

For this purpose, the data carriers should either be physically destroyed or the data on the data medium should be deleted in such a way that a reconstruction is not possible (see also the B 1.15 "Deleting and destroying" section) Dates).

Often the components are also labeled externally with names on speed dial keys, IP addresses, telephone numbers or other technical information. These labels should also be removed before disposal.

In addition, care must be taken that the components to be discarded are deprived of their privileges in order to prevent unauthorized use.

The safe disposal of the telecommunication system components should also be noted in the safety policy.



