#M 2.235 Guidelines for the use of Internet PCs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

For the secure use of Internet PCs it is necessary to set binding guidelines for this. These guidelines must be used by all involved employees of the institution, ie. at least the users of the Internet PC and the responsible administrators.

It is recommended that the guidelines for using the Internet PC be summarized in a document and made available as a file on the Internet PC, eg. on the desktop. At least the following sub-aspects should be taken into consideration:

Users should be informed in a concise, understandable form about the risks associated with using the Internet PC. This information also serves as motivation for the following guidelines.

The Internet PC must also be administered and maintained by expert staff. This can be done either by the existing administration, eg. for IT systems in the home network, or by other employees, who then have to be trained accordingly. Responsibility should be documented in the guidelines.

In some cases, it may be appropriate for users to make certain configuration settings themselves. This should be noted in the guidelines, otherwise it should be prohibited.

The guidelines should specify which persons may use the Internet PC at what times and for what purposes. In this context, it should be specified, in particular, whether only official or private use - eg. during the lunch break - is allowed.

Furthermore, it should be documented which programs may be used for the use of Internet services and whether active content, such as. Javascript, Java or ActiveX can be run on the Internet PC. It is also important in this context whether users can independently install and use browser extensions (plug-ins).

If the operating system used supports user disconnection, client programs for using Internet services should not be registered under the Administrator user account, eg. root or administrator. Administrators should also use normal user accounts.

Rules must be defined for which personal data and which information about the authority or the company, eg. Postal addresses may be forwarded via the Internet access. This also includes the question of whether messages with an official sender address can be sent if the Internet PC is used for e-mail or news.

In addition, the guidelines should specify which data can be stored on the Internet PC and which directories are provided for this purpose. It must also be regulated under which conditions data may be transported from the Internet PC to the home network or vice versa.

In both cases at least one check for computer viruses must be performed. For the import of data and programs into the home network, the use of a lock PC is recommended.

If local data storage is provided on the Internet PC, it must be determined whether the users are responsible for any necessary data backup or whether this is done automatically or by the administration. This is especially important when the Internet PC is used for e-mail, banking, e-procurement or similar tasks.

The users have to be informed about which offers, eg. illegal content, pornography or extremism, under no circumstances may be used. In addition, users must be instructed that they must comply with applicable laws and netiquette when using the Internet, as they act on behalf of the agency or the company.

Passwords are usually required for dialing in to the Internet Service Provider or for logging on to the Internet PC locally. The guidelines should specify which format and which (minimum) length these passwords have and how often they have to be changed.

If user authentication is provided for in the deployment concept, users should be instructed that they must handle the authentication secrets carefully and log out of the system when leaving the Internet PC.

Finally, it should be specified whether the password required for the Internet service provider's dial-up service may be saved or whether it must be entered again each time a dial-in service is dialed. This decision should be based on an estimate of the risk of improper use of the Internet connection in the current operational environment. A double access protection (first user login, then entering the dial-in password) is often not accepted by users.

Depending on the application and the environment of use, further guidelines or regulations for the Internet PC may have to be met.



