#M 2.319 Migration of a server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If the services of the server are to be taken over by another system, the transition must be planned. In particular, if special requirements for the availability of the services exist, a particularly careful planning is required.

In most cases, it is recommended to perform the function transition to the replacement system outside normal operating hours. If this is not possible, measures must be taken to ensure that data is not lost during the functional transition or that unacceptable downtime occurs.

Therefore, an appropriate migration concept must be created in advance for the migration of important servers. In particular, the following points should be taken into account:

* Data migration and configuration After the data has been transferred to the new system, it must be checked whether the data has been completely and correctly transferred. If a new version of the server software is to be used on the new system, then it must be ensured be that the new version with the existing data can handle correctly. This not only concerns the task of correctly importing data from the old version, but also, in particular, modifying this data or adding new data sets. Especially in such cases often problems arise, so that thorough testing recommended werden.Auer erdem it is important that the configuration of the old service on the new system correctly accepted or at least functionally equivalent can be recreated.
* Compatibility of the service It must be ensured that the service on the replacement system is compatible with the original service. This is particularly important if a new version of the server program is to be used on the new system as part of the migration, but this will continue to be accessed with old version clients. Even if a manufacturer provides reports from reference customers about successful migrations, or provides backward compatibility, full backward compatibility with previous versions, or the like, it is strongly recommended to conduct appropriate tests in advance lead.


* Cryptographic keysIf parts of the data or file systems of a server are encrypted, securing or transferring the corresponding keys is of particular importance: they are often stored elsewhere on the system than the user data itself. For example then, if the data are directly copied block by block with the help of system-related programs or the hard disks are rebuilt from the old one into the new system, it must be ensured that the keys are also transferred, otherwise access to the encrypted programs will no longer be possible data is possible.


* Changing Names and AddressesIf a server is accessed only by its IP address or DNS name, migration is usually relatively straightforward because in this case, the replacement system can simply take over the IP address of the old system. It becomes more problematic, for example, if the new system is to receive the same DNS name but can not accept the IP address. Because it takes a certain time until the change of the address has arrived at all clients. Such latencies must be taken into account when planning the migration. If the system is accessed differently (for example, if the address is resolved by another directory service), then the change must also be considered It may also have some latency before it takes effect. The biggest problem is when clients access the servers through an application where the IP address or name of the server is stored in a local configuration file or database are stored. If a larger number of clients have to be manually reconfigured, this can take a considerable amount of time and must be planned in advance.
* Persistent ConnectionsIf there are clients that establish longer existing or even permanent network connections to the service that needs to be migrated to a new machine (this is the case for some database applications, for example), then this must be taken into account during migration. If necessary, these connections must be terminated manually on the respective clients. Again, a corresponding planning is required.


For the implementation of the migration, it is recommended to create a checklist as part of the development of the migration concept, which can be followed step by step during the changeover. When planning the migration and creating the checklist, care must be taken that each step depends only on the previous steps.

In the case of high demands on the availability of the service, the entire transition should be tested beforehand in a test environment under the most realistic conditions possible in order to identify and eliminate possible problems in good time.



