#M 2.145 Requirements for a network management tool
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

In order to be able to perform effective network management, the use of a network management tool is helpful. At present, the market provides a variety of network management products, all of which must be tested for their own individual needs before a decision can be made to procure a specific tool. Above all, it is important to meet the security requirements of M 2.143 Development of a network management concept and to observe the following points:

* A network management tool must support the selected network management protocol and should also offer solutions for future developments (see M 2.144 Using SNMP as a network management protocol).
* The product must be scalable. D. It must be able to adapt to future requirements (eg extension of an existing network).
* It must support all network components in the local network and, if possible, should also support multi-vendor products, so as not to be tied to a manufacturer in the event of future investments.
* It must support all network protocols used in the local network.
* It should have a modular structure in order to be able to integrate further functions into the existing network management system at a later date without much effort.
* It should have a graphical user interface (GUI) to present the relevant information in a clear and understandable manner.
* Since the network management system manages the configuration of the network, it must be adequately protected. Access must therefore be restrictive and require the same minimum requirements as for administrator access. Two-factor authentication is recommended and should be supported by the network management system.
* If products are also used for system management, integration with network management under one surface should be possible in the sense of a single point of administration.


In addition to these general requirements, the functional requirements for a network management system must also be defined. The following criteria provide an overview of the possibilities in currently available products, but not all functions are implemented in all products. Before a product decision, therefore, it must be determined which functions are necessary and which are not required:

* physical and logical topological representation of the network (eg also the possibility of integrating background graphics such as construction plans, etc.),
* selectable presentation of the topology, automatic recognition and mapping of the network topology and segmentation (auto-discovery),
* Display of the configuration of the active network components at the port level,
* Display of performance at the port level,
* graphic visualization of the active network components,
* interactive tool for the management protocol (zB.MIB-Browser),
* easy navigation in the network management tool, eg. B.by zooming or zooming,
* possibly integration of a VLAN manager and graphical representation of the VLANs,
* intuitive usability of the tool interface, especially the part where the physical and logical topological mappings are edited (eg by drag & drop),
* Display of error and alarm messages by freely definable colors and according to self-defined criteria,
* Possibility of distributed management (client / server and manager-of-manager) and
* Possibility of integration and definition of further MIBs (Private MIBs).




