#M 2.413 Secure use of DNS for Active Directory
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

An Active Directory installation typically consists of multiple servers with different directory partitions. Thus access for both the clients and the access between the servers, z. when replicating, uses Active Directory Domain Name System (DNS) to search for Active Directory servers. Thus, the DNS service must be considered as a foundation of Active Directory.

To ensure the integrity and availability of the Active Directory, care must be taken that DNS client queries can not be misdirected by unauthorized systems in the network. In Windows environments, the protection of DNS data should be increased by Active Directory-integrated DNS zones on the domain controllers. The zone-specific DNS data is stored in the MicrosoftDNS container of Active Directory.

The configuration data for DNS zones integrated in Active Directory are stored in the Windows Registry. Access to the configuration data should only be restricted to administrative accounts.

In the following, we will focus solely on Active Directory-integrated DNS zones and Windows Server-specific properties that support the secure operation of Active Directory. Further general measures for the protection of DNA are not described here.

To protect the DNS infrastructure, the DNS servers should be protected and DNS data stored on the DNS servers should be sufficiently secured and the integrity of the DNS responses to the client requests secured during the transmission. How this can be done will be described below.

To ensure the integrity of the DNS data cached on the domain controller, you must enable the Secure Caching Against Corruption option for the DNS server process. This is to ensure that only authorized DNS records can be inserted in the clipboard.

Access to the DNS service of the domain controllers should be restricted as much as possible. This can z. B. be achieved that is limited to the security gateways between two network segments of the DNS service (UDP port 53). The DNS service must be available for the following components:

* between the DNS clients and the corresponding DNS server,
* between DNS servers that perform zone transfers,
* between DNS servers that delegate client requests to the appropriate zones and the DNS servers responsible for the zone in question,
* between DNS servers that forward client requests and DNS servers at the higher-level hierarchy level.


Furthermore, network activity should be monitored for DNS requests, as there is an unusually high volume of DNS requests for a denial-of-service (DoS) attack against a DNS server and thus under Circumstances may also indicate against a domain controller. In this case, the attacker should be identified as quickly as possible and appropriate countermeasures initiated (see also M 6.106 Creation of an emergency plan for the failure of a directory service).

IPsec (Internet Protocol Security) can ensure the confidentiality, authenticity and integrity of IP traffic in the network. When an IPsec connection is established, the client and the server authenticate each other so that the authenticity of the data can be checked by the DNS client.

The integrity of the DNS data in the transmission can be ensured by IPsec when using Authentication Header (AH) or Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP).

In contrast to the authentication header of the IPsec, the data traffic is additionally encrypted when using ESP. ESP also ensures the confidentiality of DNS data. ESP should therefore be used.

Using IPSec increases data traffic. Therefore, before using IPsec, it should be ensured that sufficient resources are available so that sufficient data throughput in the network is possible when encryption or signing is enabled.



## Examples 
* For Windows server operating systems, a DNS server is included. When used, it must be configured to process only registration requests from authorized Active Directory forest clients. If it is not used, disable it.
* If a third-party DNS server is used, make sure that it supports secure dynamic updating of the DNS data and has been configured accordingly.




