#M 2.576 Creation of a security policy for the use of local networks
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, authority / company management

One of the most important organizational tasks in the introduction of local networks is to plan and define a corresponding security policy. This guideline defines the later to be implemented safety regulations for LANs.

The safe and proper operation of a LAN can only be ensured if planning and conception as well as operation are integrated into the existing safety specifications.

The central safety requirements and the level of security to be achieved result from the organization-wide security guideline. The requirements should be formulated in a specific security guideline for LANs in order to concretise and implement the higher-level and generally formulated security guideline in the given context.

The basis for an adequate definition of requirements that are expressed in the security policy is the documentation of the protection requirements for all information that is to be processed, transmitted and stored in the LAN. Only from this it is possible to deduce the requirements for availability, integrity and confidentiality of the information and according to which technical and organizational effort is appropriate.

Since a variety ofIT systems exist, for the creation of a security policy for LANs, further security guidelines and / or regulations must be observed and coordinated with this security guideline for local networks. For example:

* Security policy for routers and switches (see M 2.279 Creating a security policy for routers and switches),
* Security policy for security gateways (see M .2.299 Creating a security policy for a security gateway),
* Security Policy for VPN Use (M 2.418 Creation of a Security Policy for VPN Use),
* Etc.


First of all, the general configuration and administration strategy (Liberal or Restrictive) should be defined, as the further decisions depend essentially on this definition.

For subnets with normal protection needs, a relatively liberal strategy can be chosen, which in many cases simplifies configuration and administration. In general, however, it is also advisable in these cases to interpret the strategy only as liberally as necessary.

For subnetworks with high protection needs, a restrictive strategy is generally recommended.

Here are some things to consider in the security policy for LANs. If aspects are already mandatory in other documents (eg safety guidelines), a corresponding reference is sufficient.



## Examples 
* Has a security policy been created for the use of local area networks?
* Have the security policy described requirements for the planning, design and operation of LANs?
* When was the security policy last updated?
* Has the security policy for the use of VLANs been included in the organization-wide system for audits and audits and have interfaces to emergency management been created?




