#M 2.221 nderungsmanagement
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Change Manager, Specialist

With the complexity of today's IT systems, even small changes to running systems can lead to security problems, eg. due to unexpected system behavior or system failures.

In terms of information security, change management is tasked with identifying new security requirements resulting from changes to IT systems. If significant hardware or software changes are planned on an IT system, the implications for overall system security must be investigated. Changes to an IT system should not lead to a reduction in the efficiency of individual security measures and thus a threat to overall security.

Therefore, there should be guidelines for making changes to IT components, software or configuration data (see M 4.78 Careful Carrying Out of Configuration Changes). Any changes to IT components, software or configuration data should be planned, tested, approved and documented. Care must be taken to ensure that appropriate responses are made to all safety-related changes. These include, for example:

* Changes to IT systems (new applications, new hardware, new network connections, modifications to the software used, installation of security patches, upgrades of hardware, etc.),
* Changes in the task or in the importance of the task for the institution,
* Changes in the user structure (new, eg external or anonymous, user groups),
* spatial changes, z. B. after a move.


Before changes are approved and implemented, testing and testing the planned actions must ensure that the level of security is maintained during and after the change. If risks, in particular for availability, can not be ruled out, the planning must also provide for a fallback solution and specify criteria as to when this should take effect.

All changes and the associated decision-making principles must be documented. This applies both in the operating and in a test environment.

In change management, the authorization concept for making changes is an important point:

* Only those who are allowed to make changes should have access privileges to the relevant system areas.
* There should be mechanisms to ensure that all material changes have been agreed in advance.


Note: When making changes, always pay attention to changes in an IT system or its conditions of use

*   changes in the implementation of individual security measures,
* the creation of a new security concept or even
* the revision of the organization-wide information security guideline


may require. In the event of major changes, information security management should therefore be involved.



