#M 2.389 Secure use of hotspots
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

Hotspots are a limited radio area that may be confined to a room, hall, or production facility. Most hotspots are explicitly set up for use by third party participants. Their main purpose is usually wireless access to the Internet. Often you can find such hotspots in hotels, airports, exhibition halls, railway stations and convention centers.

Hotspots should always be considered as an insecure network, first of all, because the existing security level from the outside is difficult to assess and, secondly, because most hotspots offer their services in the form of shared networks. This generally allows access from any terminal to any other participating terminal. If the risk associated with the use of a hotspot can not generally be estimated, it is also possible to completely ban the use of hotspots by the WLAN security guideline. But then it is technically to ensure that a wireless client can not access such a hotspot.

The operators of hotspots can do a lot for the security of the radio link and other services offered by them (see M 4.293 Safe operation of hotspots), but without the cooperation of the users a reasonable security can not be achieved. These include, inter alia, the following measures:

* Users should ask what security measures have been taken at the hotspot to assess its level of security and the trustworthiness of the operator.
* Before using them, you should inquire about the pricing and the method of billing. From the consumer's point of view, it is interesting to know how much personal data has to be disclosed and how it should be dealt with. Users should also ensure that their authentication data is not stored or misused at the hotspot. The authentication should basically be encrypted.
* Every user of a hotspot should be aware of their security requirements and decide whether or under which conditions a use of the hotspot is acceptable to him / her.


* In particular, when financial, personal or other sensitive data such as credit card numbers, PINs, passwords or e-mails are to be transmitted, it must be ensured that all necessary security measures on the client, especially encryption , are activated. An example would be the secure processing of e-mails via an HTTPS web interface or via the secure Internet protocols provided for this purpose (Secure POP, IMAPS, SMTP with SSL / TLS).
* If the operator guarantees the encryption on the radio link, encryption on the application level could in principle be dispensed with. As an additional safety measure, however, this should continue to be carried out, even as it is under its own control. In particular, passwords should never be transmitted unencrypted over foreign networks.
* To access an organization-internal network, an encrypted connection should generally be established by the WLAN client via the institution's trusted access point.
* If you are in the area of ??a hotspot but you do not want to use it, the WLAN interface on the WLAN client should be switched off to avoid accidental log-in.


* If the operator offers certificates for the authentication at the hotspot, the users should check their correctness. Even if this is annoying, information such as fingerprint, period of validity, owner as well as the certification authority of the certificate should be checked for plausibility.


* In general, all mobile clients that can log in to different WLANs must implement additional local protection measures, such as: For example, access protection, user authentication, virus protection, personal firewall, restrictive file and resource sharing at the operating system level, local encryption, etc. Further measures for a WLAN client can be found in the M 4.297 Secure Operation of the WLAN components.
* For the use of hotspots, it is also recommended to create special user accounts with secure basic configuration and restrictive rights. Under no circumstances should a user with administrator privileges log on to external networks from his client.




