#M 2.437 Planning the use of a Samba server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Samba's wide range of applications make extensive planning necessary in advance to ensure a regulated and safe introduction and, as a result, safe operation. It must be ensured that the security guidelines specified for IT systems (see above, M 2.316 Specifying a security policy for a general server) are adhered to, thus ensuring that they conform to the guidelines. Depending on the application scenario, it is necessary to define in which scenario and in which function Samba should be used and which software must also be installed if necessary (eg OpenLDAP).



## Examples 
* Standalone Calculator: A standalone calculator can be a single workstation or a server that does not belong to any domain. Such a computer manages its own user database, which it does not export.
* Domain member: A domain member can be a workstation or a server that is a member of a domain. He gets his user database from a domain controller.
* Domain Controller: A server that exports its user database is called a domain controller. Here, a distinction is made in the NT4 domain model (also in Samba) between Primary Domain Controller (PDC) and Backup Domain Controller (BDC). In the newer Active Directory (AD) domain model, user information is no longer stored in the Security Account Manager (SAM), but, among many other additional information, in the AD directory. An important difference is that it no longer distinguishes between PDCs and BDCs, but only domain controllers. Each domain controller has write access to the AD directory because the directory service supports reconciliation of multiple AD directories (multimaster replication). Furthermore, other protocols are used in an AD domain. For example, instead of the Network Basic Input / Output System (NetBIOS), the Domain Name System (DNS) and Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) / Internet Protocol (IP) protocols are used).




