#M 2.471 Planning the use of telecommunications systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Before planning the use of a TC system, a comprehensive analysis must be performed in which the most important requirements for a PBX are defined (see M 2.470 Conducting a requirement analysis for PBXs).

A basic prerequisite for the safe use of telecommunications systems is adequate planning in advance. The use of PBX systems can be planned in several steps according to the principle of top-down design: Based on the overall system, concrete planning is carried out for subcomponents. Planning does not only concern aspects that are classically associated with the term security, but also normal operational aspects that may entail safety requirements.

It therefore makes sense to record the possibly existing telecommunications system of the institution with its functions in detail. In addition, it is necessary to obtain an overview of the components connected to the telecommunication system.

Also of fundamental importance is the mode of operation of the telecommunications system determined in the requirements analysis as a classic telecommunications system, VoIP system, hybrid PBX or IP system connection.

The following aspects should be taken into consideration when planning the deployment of PBXs:



## Examples 
* Who is allowed to use which functions and communication services?
* Who decides how the PBX integrated answering machine is discussed and who can delete which recordings when?
* Who takes care of a musical announcement on hold or automatic forwarding?
* Are the devices configured centrally by an administrator, or is each user given their own permissions?




