#M 2.454 Planning the safe use of groupware systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Before a groupware system is introduced, it is necessary to decide for which purposes the system should be used and for what type of information it is intended. The type of use depends on which hardware and software has to be procured, and it determines the type and scope of the necessary planning. In particular, the security guidelines to be defined depend heavily on the planned deployment scenario.

In general, one can roughly differentiate between the following deployment variants of groupware systems:

* Use as intranet server and access via groupware clients: In this scenario, the main focus is on the use as an internal system for office communication (e-mail, appointment, coordination of group work).
* Use as intranet server and access via web clients: In this scenario, a groupware server is accessed via browsers. Since other security mechanisms are used on the web interface of a groupware server, the secure configuration of the web interface is considered as a separate scenario.
* Use in the DMZ (demilitarized zone) or perimeter network: A groupware server can also be used as a publicly accessible information server in a DMZ. This usage requires special attention in system configuration due to the exposed location of the server.
* Use of groupware applications from external service providers (eg cloud computing): this accesses groupware applications that provide external service providers on the Internet. From a security point of view, special attention must be paid to the confidentiality of data stored by third parties and to the availability of the service.


Within these individual scenarios, it can be further distinguished as to which functions should be used by the groupware used. In principle, the use of each functionality requires its own planning, which also takes into account security aspects.

Depending on what groupware systems are to be used for, the requirements for confidentiality, availability, integrity and binding of the data to be transferred also differ.

Basically, the following aspects have to be taken into account when scheduling groupware:

* It is to be clarified which types of information are to be communicated via which channels via the groupware system and what protection needs this information and the related business processes have.
* It is necessary to specify which groupware components and services should be used and which users (roles) should use which permissions.
* When designing groupware usage, it must also be determined which cryptographic security mechanisms should be used, especially for e-mails (see also M 5.108 Cryptographic protection of groupware or e-mail).
* In order to allow communication to foreign networks, the use of exposed servers has to be planned. These should be placed in a demilitarized zone or at least behind a security gateway (see block B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall)).


When planning, it should also be determined how organizational regulations or the technical implementation ensure a proper file transfer. These include z. B. the following points:

* The groupware clients must be preconfigured by the administrators in such a way that maximum security can be achieved without any additional user intervention. Further details on securing the e-mail clients can be found in M 5.57 Secure configuration of the groupware / mail clients.
* The transmission of data may only be possible after the sender has successfully identified and authenticated the transmission system.
* The users must be instructed in the relevant applications before using groupware systems for the first time. The organization-internal user regulations for data exchange must be known to them.


In principle, messages sent to internal addresses should not be forwarded via external links or to external addresses. If exceptions are made, all employees must be informed. For example, for field workers or other busy employees, e-mail can be forwarded to external access points. The use of groupware applications and above all the transmission of e-mails between different properties of an institution should be via secure channels, eg. a VPN or dedicated leased lines.

In the conception of secure groupware usage, the following points should also be considered:

* The treatment of active content in groupware communication must be planned consistently. An organization-wide uniform procedure must be defined after the respective advantages and disadvantages have been weighed against each other.
* It must be decided whether out-of-office messages should be used, as this functionality may expose internal, personal information to the outside world.
* The use of e-mail filtering mechanisms to ward off spam mail (unwanted promotional e-mail) must be planned.
* For the use of the calendar function and the task list, it must be determined who may access these functions with which authorizations. This is especially important when working with other organizational units or external parties.
* Planning should take into account when users use shared computers. Accordingly, profiles must be created and secured on these computers.
* If chat, instant messaging, audio or videoconferencing services are to be used in the institution, their use must be designed.


If external service providers are to be used for groupware deployment, eg. Mail providers are to implement the security recommendations described in module B 1.11 Outsourcing. Above all, it has to be determined which security measures are taken by the service provider (see also M 2.123 Selection of a groupware or mail provider).

It is frequently discussed whether and to what extent official groupware applications, especially e-mail, can be used for private purposes. As long as private use is limited, many institutions even support it, as it has a positive effect on employee motivation. In general, however, it is advisable to agree in the groupware directive which rules of the game are to be observed in the general use of groupware as well as in the private use of e-mail and other groupware services.

When using groupware systems in institutions, it should also be determined which groupware applications the users may use. In addition to the various services offered by the groupware systems used in the house, other groupware applications that can be used via the workstations can also be accessed, such as: Webmail or Internet terminal calendar. It must be clear which internal or external groupware applications the employees may use. What this may look like is described below using Webmail as an example. As a general rule, employees should only use programs and external services shared by their institution.

Webmail refers to offers that use a browser to access web-based e-mail services. Various mail providers offer corresponding extensions either integrated directly into their product or as additional modules. Webmail has the advantage that it can be accessed from any computer with an Internet connection worldwide on the e-mail mailboxes without having to invest in complex infrastructure. However, it is more difficult than using the internal email servers to enforce the organization-wide security policies, such as virus protection or encryption. In addition, the risk of confidential e-mails being read out or passwords being seized is much higher when accessing webmail externally.

When using webmail from a public or corporate network, the protection against malicious software must be strictly observed. With current virus warnings, it may take some time to apply the new virus protection updates to all clients. In such a situation, it may make sense to prevent access to webmail at least until those responsible are sure that adequate protection exists.

The handling of webmail in the office or the company should be regulated. There are several variants:

* Institutions may decide to ban the use of webmail in general. This must of course be announced to the employees. The ban can also be technically assisted by filtering on known providers, but it should be understood that users can always find new ways to access such services.
* A recommendation can be made to use webmail for private emails to be sent from the internal LAN. This avoids employees using official e-mail accounts for private purposes despite appropriate prohibitions - for example, because it is urgent or simply practical.
* There are also institutions where webmail is officially approved for official e-mails. The reasons for this are different. So there are z. B. a number of smaller institutions that do not have their own e-mail server and use webmail to communicate externally. Webmail can also be useful for employees who need to access their e-mails during business trips, but who do not have access via remote access. Another reason for the use of webmail may be that the particular institution does not want to look outward for certain e-mails or that webmail addresses are specified where spam is expected, ie for certain downloads , Newsgroups etc.


When using webmail, the recommendations should be reflected in M 5.96 Secure Use of Webmail.



