#M 2.548 Creation of a specification
Responsible for initiation: specialist responsible

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer, IT manager

A specification describes the requirements that an application should fulfill in the context of the considered business process or administrative procedure. Not only functional (functional) requirements for the application have to be considered, but also non-functional requirements.

In addition to the technical and IT operational requirements, safety requirements must also be considered. These also distinguish between functional and non-functional safety requirements. Functional security requirements cover specific functions of the application, such as:

* Identity and permissions management
* Password Management
* Cryptographic security of the data


The nature and manifestation of functional security requirements, such as the integration of two-factor authentication, the establishment of a PKI, the use of SAML or WS-Security, are highly dependent on the particular protection needs of the application.

Non-functional safety requirements describe which quality properties the application should have. These include aspects such as software quality, reliability, fault tolerance, maintainability and, of course, the guarantee of confidentiality, integrity and availability. An example of a non-functional requirement is to make the application resistant to certain attacks.

A specification sheet is the rough concept from the point of view of the client, which can still largely leave the type of implementation open. The specifications are the essential basis for launching a development project, much like the catalog of requirements in the case of standard software (see M 2.80 Creating a requirements catalog for standard software).

The following aspects must be taken into account when preparing the specifications:

* Protection requirements of the information processed during the business process or administrative procedure (data)
* Legal foundations to be observed during operation and thus already during the conception of the application (see M 2.547 Determination and documentation of legal bases for applications)
* Specifications, standards and criteria that must be taken into account. Depending on the field of application, this may include security criteria systems, technical guidelines or architectural recommendations, as well as accessibility requirements


Examples of such specifications and criteria works are:

* Common Criteria for Information Technology Security Evaluation (ISO15408), in particular Part 2 Security functional requirements
* Technical Guidelines of the Federal Office for Security in Information Technology
* Standards and Architectures for eGovernment (SAGA)
* Minimum requirements of the auditors for the use of information and communication technology
* Best Practices such as The Ten Golden Rules of IT Security from the Secologic Project of the German Federal Ministry of Economics, the Guides of the Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP), the Guide to Safe Programming, Introduction to the Secure Application Development of the Security Initiative Germany safely on the net and other documents from companies (see aids)


In order to prepare the specifications, in particular in order to derive and design the required safety functions, it has proven expedient, if necessary (in particular with high or very high protection requirements), to carry out a first risk analysis, for example on the basis of the Standard 100-3 described method to perform. This first version of the risk analysis must then be updated during the preparation of the specification (see M 2.552 Creating a specification), at the completion of the application and the preparation of the release. In this first round of risk analysis, of course, it is only possible to investigate against which dangers the application should be able to withstand and initial safety goals are set. Concrete safety measures can only be specified in the specifications.

The specifications should include as detailed as possible in this phase, beyond the functional (technical) requirements, statements on the following non-functional aspects:

* Quality requirements (eg user-friendliness, reliability, performance),
* Specifications regarding the architecture and IT infrastructure for which the application is designed (see M 2.214 Designing IT Operations). Each institution should have a clear specification of how IT is used and interacted in the institution. This can be. B. be set in an IT framework and an architecture concept. When planning new IT components and applications, ensure that they fit into the infrastructure and general plans.
* Further technical requirements (for example application architecture, programming language, operating system, extensibility),
* Documentation requirements (for example, modeling inUML),
* Specifications for the planned introduction. Here it must be distinguished whether it is a migration in which data and processing are taken over from an existing application or is a completely new development. It can also be important whether the introduction of the new application is planned with a changeover date or by a gradual introduction. Valuable tips on planning the procedure for the migration of applications are provided in a phase model of the Migration Guidelines of the Federal Government Commissioner for Information Technology.
* Requirements for acceptance (basic information on acceptance tests and pilot operation).
* Requirements for the required safety functions


These security features may include, but are not limited to:

* Availability requirements (tolerable downtime, recovery time etc)
* Requirements for client separation (see M 2.549 Creation of a client concept)
* Requirements for data backup (see M 6.33 Developing a data protection concept) and, if necessary, for archiving
* Requirements for external interfaces and their protection
* Request for the encryption of data storage and data transport (see M 2.161 Development of a crypto-concept)
* Requirements for authentication and authorization
* Requirements for data management and structuring
* Requirements for the efficient and effective deletion of data


The specifications should sufficiently describe the requirements of the application so that, on this basis, the application can be prepared in such a way that the necessary safety measures can be implemented with it and an overall safety appropriate to the protection requirement can be achieved.



