#M 2.317 Procurement criteria for a server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: procurer

The procurement of a server affects both the hardware and the software from which the server is to be built. If errors are made in the procurement of a server, this can have serious consequences for the secure operation of a network, since with unsuitable hardware and software, the desired level of security may be difficult to achieve.

Before a server is procured, therefore, a list of requirements must be created, by means of which the products available on the market are evaluated. Based on the evaluation, a sound purchasing decision can then be made to ensure that the server meets the requirements in practical operation.

Even purely functional features of servers can have an impact on information security. In most cases, the basic value availability is affected, for example if a server does not achieve the required response times or throughput rates due to insufficient memory. In addition, support from the manufacturer plays a not insignificant role, for example when it comes to promptly providing patches for security breaches.

From the perspective of information security are key requirements to server that

* Hardware and software are designed to meet the server availability and integrity requirements of the data,
* Administration via secure protocols is possible
* the user management allows the organization-wide role concept to be implemented accordingly, and
* that it may be possible to encrypt particularly sensitive data.


Here are some requirements that should be considered when purchasing servers:

* Basic Functional Requirements Does the device support all the necessary hardware interfaces? Does the software support all the necessary protocols and data formats?
* Security Does the system support secure protocols for administration? If servers are not administered via their own administration network, administration must be possible using secure network protocols.
* Maintainability Does the manufacturer offer periodic updates and readily available security patches for the software? In particular, it is important for the manufacturer to respond promptly to known security breaches. Often, access to updates and support services from the manufacturer is only possible in conjunction with a valid maintenance contract. Can the maintenance contracts provide maximum response times for troubleshooting? A maintenance contract is only suitable if the guaranteed response and restart times cover the specified requirements for the availability of the devices can. Does the manufacturer provide a technical support service (hotline) that is able to help in case of problems? This point should be part of the completed maintenance contract. When concluding the contract, attention must be paid to the language of the manufacturer's hotline provided.
* Reliability / reliability Are there reliable information on the reliability and reliability of hardware and software? If applicable, does the manufacturer offer high-availability solutions? If the availability requirements can not be met by maintenance contracts, the system should support high-availability solutions.
* Ease of UseLess the product easy to install, configure, administer and use, as well as provide training for the product.
* CostsHow high are the initial costs for hardware and software? What are the anticipated ongoing costs (maintenance, operation, support)? These costs must be taken into account during the procurement phase. The content of the maintenance and support contracts should be checked (response times, hotline, qualification of personnel, etc.). What are the expected running costs for the staff? Should additional software or hardware components be purchased? This question should be answered in the planning phase. If, for example, a network management system is already in use, compatibility with the devices to be procured should be checked. In addition, the effort for integration into an existing infrastructure should be taken into account. What are the costs for training administrators? Which costs have to be reckoned with if an upgrade of the hardware is necessary due to increased capacity requirements? In this case, the costs can be considerably higher than the costs for the hardware itself, as in numerous license models The price of software depends on the number of processors or the processor clock, so that a hardware upgrade can also require a new program license at the same time.
* LoggingWhat logging options are available? The logging options offered must at least meet the requirements set out in the security policy. In particular, the following points are relevant: Is the level of detail of the logging configurable? Are all relevant data recorded by logging? Does the system support central logging (eg syslog)? Can logging be carried out in such a way that the provisions of data protection can be fulfilled? Are alarm functions supported?
* InfrastructureDimensions and compatibility with protective cabinetsThe space requirement of a server must also be taken into account during procurement. Can the device be installed in the protective covers provided (form factor, weight, fastening elements)? Power and Heat The manufacturer should provide information on power consumption and ambient temperature requirements. Is the available capacity of the power supply and the UPS sufficient? Is the existing cooling capacity sufficient to dissipate the heat from the appliance?


The requirements and the selection decisions made on their basis should be documented in such a way that it becomes comprehensible at a later date how the decision was made.



