#M 2.358 Documentation of the system settings of storage systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The documentation of the system settings for the storage system shows the implementation of technical and organizational requirements and describes the individual configuration of the institution. The documentation is the basis for administration in normal operation and for the planning and implementation of changes. In addition, current and correct documentation is the basis for emergency preparedness.

Data that is relevant in an emergency must be accessible in all emergency scenarios. It should be noted, however, that information about the system settings is confidential and must therefore be sufficiently protected against unauthorized access.

In particular, the following information should be documented:

To the organization:

* A description of the defined roles and the associated rights profiles
* The administrative users of the storage system with assigned role
* The timing of the establishment of user IDs and rights and, if applicable, the time limit and further explanations
* The contact details of the user and their organizational integration
* Specifications for data backup and emergency preparedness


To the technique:

* The list of all storage devices with information on type, purpose and user group
* The logical and physical allocations of the storage devices to the servers
* All connections of the storage devices to the networks (SAN, LAN, possibly WAN for remote monitoring)
* A list of what devices   export data through a NAS interface
* A list of all management interfaces (in-band and out-band). This should also include an overview of which interfaces are active and which services can be reached.


For administration:

* A graphical representation of the networks (SAN, LAN, possibly WAN) and the configured connections between storage systems, servers and administration PC.
* All information required to enable and disable interfaces and services.
* The necessary setting for the backup
* The settings for logging
* We recommend a short presentation (cookbook) of the handling of important or regular administrative activities.


Documentation of the organization should be checked regularly (at least every 6 months) to see whether it reflects the actual status of the assignment of rights and whether the assignment of rights still complies with the security requirements and current tasks of the users.

The technical documentation should be checked even more often at least randomly, as it is the basis of emergency preparedness.



