#M 2.281 Documentation of the system configuration of routers and switches
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The configuration of routers and switches is usually done using configuration files stored on the device. Routers and switches have a number of configuration options that are important to safe operation. During initial installation or as delivered, these settings are assigned default values.

The configuration made during the commissioning of the device must be documented in such a way that it can be reconstructed at any time by the administrator or his representative. In particular, if a configuration deviates from a default value, it should be noted in a comment in the configuration file why the setting was selected in this way.

Any change in the configuration should be understood by the administrator. It is recommended to document at least the following points:

* Which change was made?
* Why was the change made?
* When was this change made (time, date)?
* Who made the change?


The documentation of the changes can also be made by comments in the configuration file. However, it usually makes sense to save for each option only the last change in the file itself.

In addition, at least all security-related configuration changes should be stored in a log that allows you to understand at any time how the device was configured at a specific time. This protocol should not be stored on the device itself.

To facilitate documentation and logging, a revision and version control system such as CVS may be used. Such a system offers the additional advantage that, if necessary, an earlier configuration can be easily restored. Network management systems for central administration usually also provide an integrated documentation and logging function.

It is advisable to design the documentation in such a way that it can also be understood by a specialist who is not familiar with the concrete conditions of the system landscape.

The configuration files should also be stored centrally on a designated server for emergency preparedness. TFTP servers are often used to centrally manage configuration files. However, TFTP servers should only be operated in a secure administration network because the TFTP service contains a number of vulnerabilities (see also G 2.87 Use of insecure protocols in public networks). An alternative to this is the transmission via SCP (see also M 5.64 Secure Shell).



