#M 2.464 Creation of a security policy for terminal server usage
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

When using terminal server systems, appropriate security guidelines must be established. The specifications and objectives set forth herein must reflect the individual conditions and requirements of a secure terminal server environment. The general security concept, the security guideline and the security guidelines derived from this provide the framework in which the terminal server-specific extensions should integrate without contradiction. The guidelines must be regularly checked for actuality and adjusted if necessary. The specifications relating to terminal servers can be supplemented in the existing guidelines or summarized in a separate document.

The guidelines should, inter alia, regulate the following points:

* The minimum requirements that clients must meet in order to be used for access to the terminal server.
* The environment in which these clients are allowed access. In particular, critical access options, such as at the teleworkstation, should be regulated from an Internet café or notebook via an insecure WLAN (see also M 2.389 Secure Use of Hotspots).
* Additional devices that can be connected to clients (printers, USB sticks, other devices).
* The internal or external networks to which the terminal server environment may be coupled.
* The information or downstream services that may be accessed through terminal server systems and to whom this is permitted.
* Security measures and a default configuration should be set for all terminal server components.
* If security problems are suspected, the IT security officer must be informed so that they can take further action (see also B 1.8 Handling security incidents).
* Administrators as well as users of terminal servers should be informed about the dangers of using the terminal server architecture and the security measures to be followed.
* The correct implementation of the measures described in the guidelines should also be monitored regularly.




## Examples 
* Which internal or external networks are allowed access to the terminal server system?
* Under what conditions can users log into the environment?
* Should non-organization clients be used and if so how?
* What steps should be taken in the event of (suspected) compromise of the terminal server or the client? Who should be notified?




