#M 2.402 Reset passwords
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Information Security Management, Head of IT

As long as users have to authenticate themselves with passwords, they will forget their passwords. On the one hand, users should be helped quickly in such a situation, so that they can work again. On the other hand, it must be prevented that unauthorized persons gain access to IT systems through inadequate authorization checks (see G 5.42 Social Engineering). Therefore, each institution must choose appropriate procedures for password reset.

It is important to define flexible policies for resetting passwords. A rigid definition of procedures is in most cases impractical in today's mobile work environment. On the one hand the procedure should correspond to the protection requirement of the respective password and on the other hand the access requirements of the users should be considered.

The appropriate course of action depends on many factors, such as the size of the institution, the number of employees, and the geographical distribution of employees (if they are always there, are they often with the customer, what are these then accessible, etc.) and, of course, the protection required by the password protected information and business processes (access only to a local IT system, to a LAN, to internal networks from outside, to an Internet mailbox , etc.).

Note: The usual authentication method with the help of username and password is usually suitable for normal protection needs. For higher protection requirements, stronger authentication methods should be used, for example by combination with a chip card, USB token or one-time password procedure.

In the following, the advantages and disadvantages of some variants for password reset are presented, from which the appropriate procedures for the respective application can be selected.



## Examples 
* The support tells the employee the new password by a second predefined way, eg. For example, by in-house mail or call back to a previously registered phone number (not if it came from the reset request).
* The password can be communicated to a supervisor, secretary or other trusted agency who knows and informs the employee.
* The password is sent to a pre-registered address (physical or e-mail address).
* The password will be sent by courier, which verifies the identity card of the recipient.




