#M 2.546 Analysis of the requirements for new applications
Responsible for initiation: specialist responsible

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer, head of organization

Before a new application is planned and configured, the framework conditions for use should be clarified, for example

* which business processes should they support, how
* which information with which protection requirements should be processed with it,
* who can and should access which parts of the application,
* which legal framework conditions must be adhered to (see M 2.547 Determination and documentation of legal bases for applications),
* what the information network looks like in which it is to be used, for example, what the network structures look like, and
* which IT components are required for the operation of the application, eg hardware platform, operating systems, databases).


It is advisable to discuss threats and risks during initial planning that may be relevant to the operation of the application. An initial analysis should be performed to identify potential attacks and other risks to the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the application in good time. The documented results on the safety risks then flow into the detailed risk analysis, which is carried out during the compilation of the specifications (see M 2.548 Preparation of a specification). Even in the later stages of the project, possible threats should be considered regularly, both by the responsible person and the developer, so that all security-relevant requirements are taken into account. Based on this, suitable security measures and test requirements can be derived, which are incorporated into the security architecture.

If the framework conditions change significantly during the operation of an application, for example when new server platforms are installed, the security measures must be reassessed.

Therefore, within security management, processes need to be built to securely develop, install, operate, monitor, and maintain applications, as well as to train administrators and users in their secure handling.

Within these processes, the roles, responsibilities and tasks for the design, construction and operation of the respective applications must be defined. Based on this, the authorizations in the various lifecycle phases of an application can be suitably defined. In addition, the role concept should specify what qualifications are needed to perform the roles. In this way, any training needs can be identified and the respective role owners sensitized to their safety responsibilities.



