#M 2.70 Development of a concept for security gateways
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

The coupling of local networks with global networks such as the Internet leads to a new information offer. The local networking of computer systems ensures that the versatile information can be accessed from any workstation.

However, this network coupling also creates new hazards since, in principle, not only a data flow from outside into the network to be protected can take place, but also a data outflow in the other direction. In addition, the possibility of executing commands on computers in the local network from a remote computer (for example, from the Internet) endangers the integrity and availability of the local network Calculator and thus indirectly the confidentiality of local data.

A protected subnet should therefore only be connected to an untrustworthy network if absolutely necessary. This is especially true for connections to the Internet, which is probably the least trusted existing network due to the high number of users. It must also be examined to what extent the network to be protected must be segmented into subnetworks, because certain computers or areas of the network to be protected should not be connected to the Internet at all or only to a limited extent, and whether for the Coupling with the Internet is not sufficient a stand-alone system (see M 5.46 use of stand-alone systems for using the Internet and block B 3.208 Internet PC).

In order to ensure the security of the network to be protected, an appropriate security gateway must be used. For a security gateway to provide effective protection, the following basic conditions must be met:

The security gateway must

* based on a comprehensive security policy,
* be embedded in the security concept of the organization,
* installed correctly and
* be administered correctly.


The connection to a non-trustworthy network may only be made once it has been verified that the risk gateways concept and the personnel and organizational constraints can be used to manage all risks.

There are several ways to implement security gateways. In order to determine which concept is best suited to the intended use, it must first be determined which security objectives are to be met by the security gateway.

Examples of security goals are:

* Protection of the trusted (internal) network against unauthorized access from the non-trusted network,
* Protection of locally transmitted and stored data against attacks on their confidentiality or integrity,
* Protection of local network components against attacks on their availability (This also applies, in particular, to information servers which provide information from the internal area to the general public),
* Availability of the information of the external network in the internal network to be protected, (however, the availability of this information must be protected against the protection of local computers and information!),
* Protection against attacks based on IP spoofing, the source routing option, the protocol ICMP or routing protocols abuse,
* Protection against attacks by new security-related software vulnerabilities. (Since the number of potential attackers and their level of knowledge when connected to the Internet must be considered very high, this security objective is of particular importance.)
* Protection against unwanted data drainage.


Based on the security objectives, a security policy has to be developed that defines tasks and requirements for the security gateway. This security policy must be embedded in the security strategy of each organization and therefore aligned with security management.

The decisions taken in the development of the security policy for the security gateway should be documented comprehensibly, as well as the reasons for these decisions.

The implementation of the security policy for the security gateway then takes place through the implementation of the security gateway, through suitable selection of hardware components, packet filters and application-level gateway, and the careful definition and establishment of filter rules.

The terms packet filter and application level gateway are important for the following sections and are therefore briefly explained to avoid misunderstandings:

* Packet filters are IT systems with special software that filter the information based on the header data of the lower layers (transport layer or link layer) of the OSI model and use special rules to forward or reject packets (see M 2.74 Suitable selection of a packet filter). For example, packet filters make decisions based on the source and destination addresses or ports of a packet, without taking the content into account.


* An application-level gateway is an IT system that filters the application layer information (that is, the actual content (payload) of a package or multiple packages together) and prohibits connections or specific commands using special rules or allow (see M 2.75 Appropriate selection of an application-level gateway). While packet filters work on layers 3 and 4 of the OSI model, gateways operate on layer 7. An application-level gateway is generally implemented on an IT system that is used exclusively for this task Command scope is reduced to the essentials.


For a security gateway to effectively protect a network against external attacks, some basic requirements must be met:

* All communications between the participating networks must be routed via the security gateway. It must be ensured that the security gateway is the only interface between the two networks. Arrangements must be made so that no further external connections can be made, bypassing the security gateway.
* A security gateway may only be used as a protective gateway to the internal network. Therefore, on a security gateway, only the services required for this purpose may be available and no other services, such as eg. As a web server, are offered. How information servers and other components running on their own systems can be integrated into a security gateway is described in a number of separate measures for various systems, see, for example, M 4.223 Integration of proxy servers in the security gateway or M 5.115 Integration of a web server in a security gateway.
* The administration of the components of the security gateway may only be possible via secure access. Eg via a secure console, an encrypted connection or a separate network (administration network). A console should be located in a server room (see B 2.4 server room).
* A security gateway builds on a security policy that has been defined for the network to be protected and allows only the connections specified there. These connections may need to be set in great detail (down to individual indication of IP address, service, time, direction and user separately).
* Appropriate personnel must be available for the design and operation of a security gateway. The time required for the operation of a security gateway must not be underestimated. Alone the evaluation of the accrued log data often takes a lot of time. The administrator must have in-depth knowledge of the IT components used and be trained accordingly.
* The users of the local network should have to accept as few restrictions as possible by using a security gateway.


A security gateway can protect the internal network from many threats when connecting to the Internet, but not all. When setting up a security gateway and working out a security policy, you should therefore clarify the limits of a security gateway:

* Logs are checked, not the transmitted information. For example, a log check confirms that an e-mail has been delivered with proper commands, but can not give any indication of the actual content of the e-mail.
* Filtering active content may be partially successful, as it may not recognize all the different ways to embed active content.
* Once a user is allowed to communicate over a security gateway, he can tunnell any other protocol over the communication protocol being used. This would allow an internal user to allow external access to internal computers or even use unauthorized protocols. The unauthorized use of tunneling methods is usually difficult to determine.
* A limitation of Internet access to specified web servers is practically impossible, since many web servers can also be used via proxies. Therefore blocking of certain IP addresses can easily be bypassed.
* Software for filtering using web addresses (URLs) is often still immature. For example, it is possible that not all types of addressing are detected. The following example with the BSI web server will show you which addressing options are available. The list is far from complete, as individual letters can also be represented by escape sequences.www.bsi.bund.dewww.bsi.de 194.95.176.226 3261051106
* In addition, URL filters can be bypassed by using anonymous users.
* The filtering of spam emails is not yet mature. No SMTP proxy can determine beyond doubt whether an e-mail is desired by the recipient or not. Spam e-mails should disappear at the earliest when the sender of e-mails is unequivocally verifiable. However, this is not possible with the conventional SMTP protocol alone.
* Security gateways do not protect against all denial-of-service attacks. If an attacker z. B. the connection to the provider paralyzes, even the best security gateway does not help. Furthermore, there are always errors in the implementation of protocols on end devices that security proxies will not be able to intercept.
* Although a security gateway can secure a network transition, it does not affect the security of communication within the networks!
* Even the components of security gateways, which have been specially developed for security reasons, may contain programming errors despite great care.
* Security gateways can only protect against deliberate or accidental misconfiguration of the clients and servers to be protected.
* Built-in backdoors in the software used may also be exploited through a security gateway. In extreme cases, the software of the security gateway itself may contain backdoors.
* The correct configuration of the components of the security gateway is often very demanding. Faults in the configuration can lead to safety gaps or failures.
* If the documentation of the technical equipment of the security gateway by the manufacturer is inadequate, this favors errors in configuration and administration.
* If the components of the security gateway are dimensioned incorrectly, the availability can be impaired. If, for example, the computer running an HTTP security proxy is dimensioned too weakly (too little memory, too slow a processor), this can severely impair the speed of Internet access.
* It can not be prevented that attackers analyze the components of the security gateway using vulnerability scanners.
* A security gateway can not protect against users' deliberate or unconscious disregard of security policies and concepts.
* A security gateway does not protect against the misuse of shared communications by inside officers (insider attacks).
* A security gateway does not protect against social engineering.
* If mobile devices (laptops, PDAs, etc.), which are also used externally by employees, are connected to the internal network, malware (viruses, worms, Trojan horses) can be imported into the trusted network in this way become.
* A security gateway also does not protect against malicious programs on exchange media, eg. B.CD-ROM, floppy disk, USB stick in the trustworthy network are introduced.




