#M 2.335 Defining security objectives and strategy
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer

Information security is an important factor for success in order to fulfill the goals and tasks of a company or a public authority. Information security is not a one-time project, but a continuous process that must be anchored as such in all business processes and the minds of all employees. The security process must be initiated and established by the authorities or company management. First, adequate security objectives and an information security strategy must be established. In addition to the strategic key statements, conceptual requirements must be developed and the organizational framework created in order to enable the orderly and secure handling of information within all business processes of the company or the authorities.

The security objectives should be carefully determined at the beginning of each security process. Otherwise, there is a risk that security concepts will be developed that do not meet the information security requirements of the agency or the company. The methodological planning of information security helps to achieve the basic goals and tasks of a company or a public authority. The basis for the definition of the security objectives therefore forms the general objectives of the institution as well as the essential business processes and information. Adequate and achievable security goals are a prerequisite for all further steps in the security process. The goals must be realistic, practice-oriented, convincing and understandable. From this, it is possible to derive within the framework of the security conception which protection requirements the individual information, business processes, applications, IT components and networks have and which security measures are therefore to be implemented.

When implementing security measures, a compromise between cost and effort usually has to be found. It should therefore be transparent which information and business processes contribute to the performance of the task and what value is attached to it in order to formulate appropriate security goals.

The safety objectives must be borne and held responsible by the management or authorities. They should be developed and documented by the information security management team with the involvement of senior management. Depending on the organizational structure, it is advisable to include the heads of larger business areas (eg department heads or area managers) in the deliberations.

A detailed description of how and in which depth the security strategy and goals should be recorded can be found in the BSI Standard 100-2 Approach to IT-Grundschutz.

Security objectives and strategy should be regularly explored to see if they are up to date and appropriate. The security objectives and strategy must be reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted in the event of changes to framework conditions, business processes or the IT environment.

The security process can only be successful in the long term if the effectiveness and efficiency of the security strategy is regularly checked by senior management. The resulting improvements go into the adaptation of the security process.



