#M 2.321 Planning the use of client-server networks
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

A basic prerequisite for clients to operate safely is to have adequate planning in advance.

The planning of the assignment can be carried out in several steps according to the principle of top-down design: Based on a rough concept for the overall system, concrete plans for sub-components are defined in specific sub-concepts. Planning does not only concern aspects that are classically associated with the term security, but also normal operational aspects that result in safety requirements.

In the rough concept, for example, the following typical questions should be dealt with:

* Which tasks should the clients fulfill? Which services must be accessible by the clients? Are there any special requirements for the availability of the systems or for the confidentiality or integrity of the stored or processed data?
* Should certain hardware components be used in the system? This can be important, for example, for the selection of the operating system.
* Which requirements for the hardware equipment (CPU, main memory, capacity of the hard disks, capacity of the network, etc.) arise from the general requirements?
* Is the network in which the clients are to be used a homogeneous or heterogeneous computer network?
* Do the clients serve as a replacement for existing systems? Do you want to take over data assets or hardware components from the old systems?
* Should further operating systems be installed on the computers by multiboot?


It is recommended to create one or more generic requirement profiles (for example, general office PC, development computer, or administration client) that can be used as the basis for concrete planning.

The following subconcepts should be considered in the planning:

* Authentication and user management: Which types of user management and user authentication should be used? Are users only managed locally or should a central administration system be used? Should the system access a central, network-based authentication service or is only a local authentication required? More information can be found in M 4.133 Suitable selection of authentication mechanisms and M 4.250 Selection of a central, network-based authentication service.
* User and group concept: Based on the organization-wide user, rights and role concept, appropriate rules must be created for the clients (see also M 2.31 Authorized User and Rights Profile Documentation and M 2.30 User User Configuration / User groups).
* Administration: How should the systems be administered? Are all settings made locally or are the clients integrated in a central administration and configuration management?


* Partition and file system layout: In the planning phase, a first estimate of the required disk space should be made. For ease of administration and maintenance, it is recommended that as far as possible separate the operating system (system programs and configuration), application programs and data (for example, database server and data), and possibly user data. Different operating systems offer different mechanisms for this (division into drives under Windows, file systems under Unix). Often it can be useful to save certain data even on your own hard disk or your own disk system. This allows, for example, for a new installation or an update of the system to transfer the data on the other partitions without copying. In the planning phase, the intended division of the partitions and their size should be documented.




* If the clients store data with high protection requirements regarding confidentiality, the use of encrypted file systems is strongly recommended. Not necessarily all file systems need to be encrypted, but it will often be sufficient to provide encryption for the part of the file system on which the data itself is stored. This is facilitated by proper planning of the partition and file system layout. In the case of special confidentiality requirements for the data stored on the clients, it may be necessary to equip the systems with a encryption program which encrypts the entire hard disk and, even before the start of the operating system, performs user authentication (for example Via a chip card) (Pre-Boot Authentication).


* Network services and network connection: Depending on the security requirements of the data to be accessed by the clients, the network connection of the clients must be planned. Depending on the intended use of the computers, access to other services may also be required needed in the network. This must already be taken into account in the planning, so that difficulties do not arise at a later date, for example due to low transmission capacities or problems with interconnected security gateways.
* Monitoring: If there are special requirements for the availability of the clients, then a monitoring system can be used. For this purpose, a monitoring daemon is installed on a server, to which a locally installed agent sends the data to be monitored, for example, system load or remaining free space. In the case of problems, for example, an alarm can be automatically generated.


* Logging: Logging also plays an important role for clients, for example when diagnosing and correcting problems, or when detecting and resolving attacks. In the planning phase it should be decided which information should be logged at least and how long the log data should be stored. In addition, it must be determined whether the log data is to be stored locally on the systems or on a central log server in the network. It is sensible that it should already be determined in the planning phase how and at what times log data should be evaluated.
* High Availability: If special requirements are placed on the availability of the clients, it should be considered in the planning phase how these requirements can be met.


All decisions made in the planning phase must be documented in such a way that they can be reconstructed at a later date. It should be noted that usually other persons besides the author must evaluate this information. Therefore, attention must be paid to appropriate structuring and comprehension.



