#M 2.113 Regulations for teleworking
Responsible for initiation: Public Authority / Management, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources, Supervisors

For the design of the framework conditions for teleworking, various aspects of labor law and labor law must be observed. For example, disputed points should be clarified by either company agreements or individual agreements between the teleworker and the employer in addition to the employment contract. In these agreements, for example, the points of voluntary participation in teleworking, overtime and supplements, expenses for travel between business and home, expenses z. B. for electricity and heating, liability (in the case of theft or damage to IT, but also in case of occupational accident or occupational disease) and termination of telework are clarified or regulated.

The security measures necessarily required for teleworking in the handling of information and information and communication technology must also be documented in a security guideline for teleworking.

The following aspects, for example, should be considered in the teleworking regulations:

* Working time arrangements: The distribution of working hours on activities in the institution and at the home workplace must be regulated. Fixed times of accessibility at the home office must also be specified.
* Response times: It should be regulated at what intervals the teleworkers retrieve up-to-date information (eg how often e-mails are read) and in which period of time they have to respond.
* Dealing with confidential information: In teleworking, information is processed both analogously, eg. B. on paper, as well as digitally edited. Irrespective of the form in which information is available, it must be protected against unauthorized access and other security risks. Therefore, the entire life cycle of business-critical information must be adequately secured.
* Tools: It should be specified which tools the teleworker can use and which ones can not be used (eg not released software). This will provide an e-mail connection, but the use of other Internet services will be prohibited. Furthermore, the use of data carriers, such as CDs, DVDs or USB sticks could be prohibited if the teleworkstation does not require this.
* Data backup: The teleworkers are to be obliged to carry out regular backups of the locally stored data. In addition, it should be agreed that one generation of data backups will be deposited in the institution to support availability.
* Synchronization of data records: Data records that are to be processed both in the institution and at telework places must be duly synchronized. The synchronization procedure must be planned precisely so that there are no conflicts and therefore no data loss if two users have changed or deleted the same data set in mirrored data. It is recommended to use suitable software for this.
* Data protection: Teleworkers are to be obliged to comply with the relevant data protection regulations and to point out the necessary measures when processing personal data in the home office.
* Data communication: It has to be determined which data can be transmitted by which means or which data can not be transmitted electronically or only encrypted electronically. It is also necessary to specify which documents may be transported between the institution and the home office and how these can be protected.
* Transport of documents and data carriers: The type and security of the transport of documents and data carriers between the home and the workplace must be regulated. Confidential data on digital media should only be encrypted.


* Reporting: Teleworkers are to be obligated to report security-related incidents without delay to a point to be determined in advance in the institution.
* Access rights to the home office: An access right to the home office (with prior notification, if applicable) may be agreed for the execution of checks and for the availability of files and data in the case of substitution.
* Representation scheme: For each teleworker, a representative should be designated who must be informed about the current activities, so that he can also take over representation at short notice. For this, the work results must always be carefully documented by the teleworkers. Where appropriate, sporadic or regular meetings between the teleworker and his representative make sense. In addition, it must be regulated how the representative in the event of unexpected substitution can access the data on the teleworking computer or documents available at the teleworkstation. This substitution case should be tried and tested by the teleworker and his representative.


The regulations are to be handed over to every teleworker. Corresponding bulletins must be updated regularly.



