#M 2.225 Assignment of responsibility for information, applications and IT components
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible, employees

In order to achieve a comprehensive overall security, the involvement of all employees of an organization in the implementation of the necessary security measures is required. For all information, applications and IT components, therefore, it must be determined who is responsible for this and their safety. For this, a specific person (including representatives) and no abstract group should always be named, so that the responsibility is clearly recognizable at all times. For more complex information, applications and IT components, all responsible parties and their representatives should be mentioned by name.

Conversely, of course, all employees should know which information, applications and IT components they are responsible for and in which way.

Each employee is responsible for what lies within his or her sphere of influence, unless it is explicitly regulated differently. For example, the senior management of the organization is responsible for all the fundamental decisions when introducing a new application, the head of IT together with the information security management for the development of security requirements for the IT components, the administrators f Their correct implementation and the users for the careful handling of the related information, applications and systems.

The specialist managers as the owners of information and applications must ensure that

* the protection needs of the information, applications and IT components have been correctly determined,
* the necessary security measures are implemented,
* this is checked regularly (eg every day, every week, every month),
* the tasks for the implementation of the security measures are clearly defined and assigned,
* the access or access to the information, applications and IT components is regulated,
* the information security-threatening deviations are documented in writing.


The responsible persons together with the information security management have to decide how to deal with any residual risks.



