#M 2.173 Defining a web server security strategy
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Web servers are very attractive targets for attackers, as a successful attack often receives a lot of publicity. Therefore, the security of a web server must be given a high priority. Before setting up a web server, a web server security strategy should describe which security measures should be implemented and to what extent. Based on the requirements defined in the web server security strategy, it can then be checked regularly whether the measures taken are sufficient.

The security strategy for running a web server is to answer the following questions:

* Have persons responsible for the secure operation of the web server (administrators) and for the content support (editors) been named?
* How are the responsible persons trained, especially with regard to possible dangers and safety measures to be observed?
* Who gets access to the web server with which rights?
* Who may post which information?
* Who is responsible for the timeliness and correctness of the information? If several organizational units or persons are allowed to enter information in one area, an overall responsible person must be named who decides on conflicts.
* Which other systems and which network connections are important for the secure operation of the web server? Can intermittent faults or failures of these systems be bridged at times?
* Which information can not be set on the web server (eg if the contents are confidential, are not suitable for publication or do not correspond to the company or authority policy)?
* Does the integrity and confidentiality of the data need to be protected during transmission from the web server to the client? Is it necessary to authenticate the web server against the clients or clients vis-à-vis the web server?
* Which access restrictions on the web server should be implemented (see also M 2.175 Structure of a web server)?


In particular, the following points should be ensured by organizational regulations or by the technical implementation:

* On web servers, only files that have been released for publication may be set. It is necessary to specify what types of information are suitable for publication and who releases them.
* Before setting files on a web server, they must be explicitly checked for malicious software and residual information. In addition, they must be checked (at least randomly) to determine whether the contents have been released for publication.
* It is recommended not to implement necessary functions in your own web offer with Active Content, but to implement this on the server side as much as possible.


All regulations for the use of web servers must be specified in writing and should be available to employees at all times.

The editors must be trained before using the web server to avoid operating errors and to ensure compliance with the organization's internal guidelines. In particular, they must be made aware of possible dangers and safety measures to be observed.

In particular, if the web server hosts a public web site, the security strategy must also specify responses to specific web server-specific security incidents (see also module B 1.8 Handling security incidents).

* It should be determined how to proceed when unreleased information has been published on the web server. The mere deletion of the corresponding documents may not be sufficient as they have already been read by visitors. Such an incident must at least be documented. Depending on the explosive nature of the information, the press office, the IS management, the authorities or the management or external authorities may need to be informed.


* It should be described what to do if you suspect a hacker attack on the web server. Above all, the question is important when the server must be taken from the network if necessary and who makes the decision to do so.


* A reaction to a defacement of the web server should be defined, that is for the case that after a successful break on the web server data or particularly the homepage were changed by the attackers. In such a case, in principle, the authorities or company management as well as the press office or the organizational unit responsible for public relations work must also be informed.


These points should be taken into account even if the protection requirement of the website is otherwise considered as low. In particular, a hacker attack or a defacement can happen regardless of the specific need for protection in all public web offers.

Part of a security strategy must also be the regular gathering of information about potential security gaps in order to be able to take timely precautionary measures. In addition to the sources of information mentioned in S 2.35 Obtaining information about security vulnerabilities in the system, the World Wide Web Security FAQ is a valuable source for security advice on Web usage. The master copy of this document can be found at http://www.w3.org/Security/Faq/.



