#M 2.559 Procurement of Windows 8
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Procurement

Due to the increased requirements or recommendations regarding the hardware to be used by Windows 8 systems compared to previous versions of Windows, eg. UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) or Secure Boot, it is necessary to plan exactly the purpose and the application variant before procuring both the hardware and the software.

The official Windows Hardware Certification Requirements, formerly known as Windows Logo Requirements, specify the requirements for computers or components that want to use the official Windows logo. These requirements distinguish between the ARM and x86 platforms.

While the use of UEFI and Secure Boot is mandatory for ARM platforms, manufacturers of x86-based hardware must enable the deactivation of Secure Boot. The implementation of this requirement by Microsoft is to be considered when selecting suitable hardware.

In addition, when selecting the hardware and software, the degree of implementation of the recommendations of the Federal Ministry's Key Issues Paper on Trusted Computing and Secure Boot should be taken into account by the respective hardware or software manufacturer (see also M 4.471 Survey About new security-related features in Windows 8).

If the 64-bit version of the respective edition is to be used, the hardware to be used and the applications to be installed must be checked for 64-bit compatibility.

Basically, four editions of Windows 8 are available. The two most commonly used editions in the organizational environment are Pro and Enterprise.

Further details on the differences between the editions Pro and Enterprise can be found in M 4.470 Basic knowledge of Windows 8.

Apart from Windows RT, all editions are available for 32- and 64-bit processors.

In addition, users or institutions from the European Economic Area and Switzerland can purchase a so-called N-Edition. This edition allows the applications to play and manage z. B. Select DVDs or digital media files freely. It otherwise corresponds to the scope of functions of the respective underlying versions.

When procuring from a volume license agreement, the necessary infrastructure for activating the systems must also be taken into account accordingly. This applies above all to the newly added activation variant ADBA (Active Directory Based Activation) for volume activation of Windows 8 systems.

It's important to keep in mind that older systems, such as Windows 7 or Windows Server 2008 R2, still rely on the KMS service. The exclusive operation of an ADBA activation is therefore only possible in a pure Windows 8 and Windows Server 2012 environment (see M 4.336 Activation of Windows systems as of Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement) ,



