#M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Frequently, errors in products become known, which can lead to the fact that the information security of the information network, where these are operated, is impaired. Corresponding errors can affect hardware, firmware, operating systems and applications. These vulnerabilities must be resolved as soon as possible so that they can not be exploited by internal or external attackers. This is especially important when the systems are connected to the Internet. Operating system or software component manufacturers typically publish patches or updates that need to be installed on the respective IT system to resolve the error (s).

The system administrators should therefore regularly inform themselves about known vulnerabilities (see also M 2.35 Obtaining information about security gaps in the system).

It is important that patches and updates, like any other software, can only be obtained from trustworthy sources. For each deployed system or software product, it must be known where security updates and patches are available. It is also important to check the integrity and authenticity of the products already installed or the security updates and patches to be installed (see M 4.177 Ensuring the Integrity and Authenticity of Software Packages) before a Update or patch is installed. Before installation, they should also be checked using a computer virus protection program. This should also be done for packages whose integrity and authenticity have been verified.

Security updates or patches, however, can not be prematurely recorded, but must be tested before importing. Otherwise, if a conflict arises with other critical components or programs, such an update may cause the system to fail. If necessary, an affected system must be protected by other measures until the tests are completed.

Before installing an update or patch, always make sure to back up the system, which will allow it to recover to its original state if problems occur. This applies in particular if detailed tests can not be performed for reasons of time or for lack of a suitable test system.

In each case, it must be documented when, by whom and for what reason patches and updates were recorded (see also M 2.34 documentation of the changes to an existing system). From the documentation the current patch level of the system must be able to be determined quickly at any time, in order to gain clarity as soon as the vulnerability becomes known as to whether the system is at risk.

If it is determined that a security update or patch is incompatible with another major component or program or is causing problems, care must be taken to determine how to proceed. If it is decided that a patch will not be installed due to the problems that have arisen, this decision must be documented in any case. In addition, it must be clearly described in this case which measures have been taken to prevent exploitation of the vulnerability. Such a decision must not be made by the administrators alone, but must be coordinated with the supervisor and the IT security officer.



