#M 2.11 Control of password usage
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: user, IT security officer

If passwords are used for authentication in an IT system or application, the security of access and access management of the system is critically dependent on the passwords being used correctly. However, it is advisable to introduce a password usage policy and instruct users of IT systems in this regard.

Password design requirements must always be a viable compromise between the following security objectives:

* The character composition of the password must be so complex that it is not easy to guess.
* The number of possible passwords in the given scheme must be so large that it can not be determined in a short time by simple trial and error.
* The password must not be too complicated, so that the owner is able to memorize it with reasonable effort.


The following rules for password design and use should therefore be observed:

* The password must not be easy to guess. Names, license plate numbers, date of birth etc. may therefore not be selected as passwords.
* A password should consist of uppercase letters, lowercase letters, special characters, and numbers. At least two of these types of characters should be used.
* If alphanumeric characters can be selected for the password, it should be at least 8 characters long.
* If only digits are available for the password, it should be at least 6 characters long and the authentication system should block access after a few failed attempts (for a period of time or permanently).


* It must be tested how many passwords of the password are really checked by the computer.
* Preset passwords (eg from the manufacturer when delivering systems) must be replaced by individual passwords.
* Passwords must not be stored on programmable function keys.
* Passwords must be kept secret and should only be known to the user personally.
* The password should at best be fixed in writing for the deposit, in which case it must be stored securely in a sealed envelope. If it is also written down, the password is at least as secure as a bank card or bank note (see M 2.22 Storing the password).


* The password must be changed regularly, eg. B. every 90 days.
* A password change is to be carried out if the password has become known to unauthorized persons or suspected.
* Old passwords should not be needed after a password change.
* The entry of the password should take place unobserved.
* Since people usually can not remember long and complicated passwords and, in addition, a different password must be used for each application, the use of a password storage tool can be tested in practice. Considerations for this include M 4.306 Handling password storage tools.


IfIT technically possible, the following boundary conditions should be met:

* The choice of trivial passwords (eg BBBBBBBB, 123456, names, dates of birth) should be avoided.
* Each user must be able to change his own password at any time.
* Users should be assisted in changing passwords through an entropy measurement (display of password values).


* For the initial registration of new users initial passwords should be assigned, which must be changed after a single use.


* In times when passwords are transmitted unencrypted, it is recommended to use one-time passwords permanently (see M 5.34 Using one-time passwords).


* Unsuccessful login attempts should be rejected with a short error message without further details. In particular, in the case of unsuccessful login attempts, it must not be possible to determine whether the user name entered or the entered password (or both) are incorrect. After five consecutive incorrect password entries for the same identifier, the authentication system should block access to it (for a certain period of time or permanently). The blocking of an identifier may also not be recognizable during subsequent unsuccessful login attempts, but should be communicated to the respective user in a separate way.
* When authenticating in networked systems, passwords should not be transmitted unencrypted, even on the intranet. If the authentication is carried out over an unsecured network, then passwords may under no circumstances be transmitted unencrypted.
* When entering the password should not be displayed on the screen.
* The passwords must be stored securely in the system, eg. By means of one-way encryption (hash functions).
* The password change should be initiated by the system on a regular basis.
* The repetition of old passwords when changing passwords should be prevented by the IT system (password history).




