#M 2.25 Documentation of the system configuration
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Planning, controlling, controlling and emergency preparedness of the IT deployment are based on up-to-date documentation of the existing IT system. Only up-to-date documentation of the system configuration enables an orderly restart of the IT system in the event of an emergency.

For network operation, the physical network structure (see M 5.4 Documentation and labeling of the cabling) and the logical network configuration must be documented. This also includes the access rights of the individual users (see M 2.31 Documentation of Authorized Users and Rights Profiles) and the status of the data backup. Furthermore, the applications used and their configuration as well as the file structures must be documented on all IT systems.

It is important to ensure that the documentation is up-to-date and understandable, so that a representative can also continue the administration at any time. The system documentation must be stored in such a way that it is available at any time if necessary. If it is in electronic form, it should either be printed out regularly or stored on a portable data carrier. Access to the documentation should be restricted to the responsible administrators.

The system documentation should document all the steps that must be observed when starting up or shutting down IT systems. This is especially important in networked IT systems. Here z. B. Often, a certain order is observed when mounting drives or starting network services.



