#M 2.253 Contract design with the outsourcing service provider
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Public authority / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Once an outsourcing service provider has been selected, all aspects of the outsourcing project must be contractually defined and regulated in service level agreements (SLAs). The aspects described below are to be seen as aids and checklists in contract drafting. The type, scope and level of detail of the contractual arrangements always depend on the specific outsourcing project. The higher the protection requirements of the outsourced IT systems and applications, the more carefully and in detail the contract between the client and the service provider must be negotiated. The service provider should be obliged to comply with the IT-Grundschutz and the security requirements specified by the client (see M 2.251 Definition of security requirements for outsourcing projects). Of course, this includes the obligation of the outsourcing service provider to create a security concept including an emergency preparedness concept and to document security measures as well as systems and applications.

In addition to the general specifications, however, it is always advisable to contractually fix a precise quantitative description of performance, eg. on availability requirements, response times, computing power, available storage space, number of employees, support times.

Although a general obligation to comply with IT-Grundschutz would generally be satisfactory, it is always advisable to contractually stipulate all agreed services as accurately and unambiguously as possible. This will prevent later disputes between the parties. Subsequent concretizations and additions to the contract, which become necessary due to different interpretations of the described services, are often associated with significant cost increases for the client. The creation of the security concept itself should also be part of the contract. In particular, it must be decided who is responsible for the subject matter and which duties of cooperation are the responsibility of the client.

The following is a list of topics that should be covered from a security perspective. Further details can be found in the respective measures of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs:



## Examples 
* Securing the infrastructure of the service provider (eg access control, fire protection, ...)




