#M 2.88 License management and version control of standard software
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, Head of Organization

Without proper version control and license control, experience has shown that it is quickly possible to use a variety of software versions on an IT system or within an organizational unit, some of which may be used without a license.

All IT systems of an institution may use exclusively licensed software. This rule must be made known to all employees, and the administrators of the various IT systems must ensure that only licensed software is used. For this they have to be equipped with suitable tools for license control.

Frequently, different versions of an application are used in an institution. As part of the license control, it should also be possible to obtain an overview of all software versions used. This ensures that old versions are replaced with new ones as soon as necessary, and that all versions are deleted when licenses are returned.

In addition, the various configurations of the installed software must be documented. Thus, it must be possible to get an overview of which IT system which safety-relevant settings of a product were specified by the release and which were actually installed. Thus kannz. B. quickly be clarified on which computers the macro programming has been installed on the product XYZ and to which not.

In order to ensure that licenses for hardware defects do not become invalid, it is recommended to use hardware-independent licenses as far as possible. Thus, an IT system can be replaced with less effort when the hardware is running out.

If it is necessary to activate a product online through a manufacturer's licensing server, the license may subsequently expire and the product be deactivated. If possible, products should be selected that do not need to be activated online.

If feasible and economically viable, perpetual licenses should be preferred. This can be used to prevent a functional restriction if the license has expired or the system time deviates significantly.



