#M 2.562 Regulation of the use of embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Even during operation, there are a number of security requirements for the use of embedded systems. These systems must be adequately integrated into the technical and organizational environment in which they are used. For this, the following organizational arrangements must be made.

Appropriate personnel measures with regard to training, user support, substitution regulations, obligations, role assignments are to be defined or implemented. Users should be regularly trained in handling the Embedded Systems or Embedded Systems they serve. Manuals must be available in the required scope and version.

Those responsible for firmware updates, maintenance and repair, log evaluation, and response to security and malfunction must be named. In the event of failures, malfunctions and security incidents, it must be clearly defined what needs to be done. All users must be informed about the corresponding rules of conduct and reporting procedures.

Rules must be established to test integrity and operability. There are indications. For example, to make the intervals, the compatibility with the operation and those responsible. The requirements for the physical environment of use, such as. B. the humidity and temperature range and the power supply must be fixed. If necessary, additional measures should be established in the infrastructure.

For the users, the embedded systems must be preconfigured by the manufacturer or the administrator so that adequate safety and functionality can be achieved. The embedded system configuration must be documented so that it can be reconstituted according to the availability requirements after a replacement, upgrade, or system rebuild.

For embedded systems with cryptographic portions, further rules must be defined in a crypto concept.



