#M 2.463 Use of a central pool of Bluetooth peripherals
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Some devices do not have a Bluetooth module in the default configuration, or their Bluetooth modules do not comply with a current Bluetooth specification. To equip such devices in the short term with a current Bluetooth technology, it may be helpful to build a central pool with Bluetooth peripheral devices. In this pool, different Bluetooth devices can be managed. Starting with Bluetooth devices and keyboards via GPS receivers that can communicate with a Bluetooth device via Bluetooth, up to Bluetooth adapters (as an USB stick or as a plug-in card for laptops) that give a device the ability to use Bluetooth.

Especially with Bluetooth keyboards and mice, it should be noted that this always includes a Bluetooth adapter in order to be able to use this wireless technology. With this Bluetooth adapter, a terminal is generally recognizable as a Bluetooth device and must be configured accordingly. Otherwise, the recommendations of measure M 4.254 Safe use of wireless keyboards and mice when using Bluetooth keyboards and mice should be observed.

There are many products available on the market that communicate via Bluetooth. With proper implementation and configuration of the Bluetooth security features, they generally provide greater protection than proprietary radio systems. Especially with keyboards, however, it must be ensured that a sufficiently long key is used for the Bluetooth connection. In addition, the input devices should comply with the Bluetooth 2.1 + EDR specification, as this specification allows so-called Simple Secure Pairing (see "M 4.362 Secure Bluetooth Configuration") for a higher level Security for the Bluetooth connection and make keylogging attacks more difficult.

All Bluetooth devices in the pool should meet the criteria defined by the recommendations of measure M 2.462 Bluetooth device acquisition criteria for the institution.

When issuing the Bluetooth devices, the respective users must be informed about the correct use of the Bluetooth device and the associated security functions. For this purpose, a safety instructions sheet should be prepared for Bluetooth use, which should also include installation and usage instructions for the Bluetooth device. In addition, it must be documented who lent which Bluetooth device and when and for what purpose the device should be used. The receipt of the Bluetooth device must be confirmed by the user by his signature. In addition, the user confirms by his signature that he knows and adheres to the safety instructions for the use of Bluetooth. The return of the Bluetooth device is also noted on the form.

It may be advantageous to merge the central pool for Bluetooth devices and a possibly existing pool for mobile phones and to include the Bluetooth devices there (see M 2.190 Setting up a mobile phone pool). Many mobile phones nowadays have Bluetooth as standard, which means that the same security settings must be made there as with other Bluetooth devices.



