#M 2.393 Regulation of information exchange
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, IT Leader, Organization Leader

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, employees

Information can come in different forms. In most cases, in the field of IT-Grundschutz, paper-based information or electronically recorded information is considered. In general, all information must be adequately protected, from thoughts and ideas to written and printed representations, electronic messages, voice, video or video recordings.

If information is to be exchanged between two or more communication partners, a number of different aspects must be observed in order to protect it. For any type of information exchange, it must first be

* how vulnerable they are (see M 2.217 Careful classification and handling of information, applications and systems),
* with whom these can be exchanged (see M 2.42 Definition of the possible communication partners) and
* how these are to be protected.


For this purpose, clear and comprehensible rules should be in place that cover all forms of information exchange, for example, the exchange of data as well as the exchange of data by data carrier, e-mail, fax, (mobile) telephone or Internet. In general, it should be ensured that information can not get into the wrong hands, eyes and ears and that they can not be changed unnoticed.

All employees should be aware that they are responsible for adequately protecting internal information. For example, sketches of ideas on paper should not be left in meeting rooms, project plans should not be discussed in public transport or in the restaurant, callers should not be communicated unspoken internals. Protective information should not be printed or left unattended on printers or fax machines. Wall boards and whiteboards in meeting, training and event rooms should be cleaned at the end of each session, and any flipchart sheets used should be removed. Employees should be regularly alerted to such aspects, for example, about appropriate explanations and illustrations on the intranet or in the house newspaper.

Communication partners should regularly check whether they are entitled to receive the relevant information. Among other things, the company affiliation, the postal or e-mail address or the fax number could have changed, and the information transmitted could thus reach the wrong people. In the case of a first contact, the identity of the counterpart should also be checked, as business cards can be displayed on any name. Therefore, it is recommended to hold a question for new business partners in their authority or company or to obtain references.

Exactly how analogue and electronic information is to be protected in the exchange of information is described, for example, in the blocks B 5.2 Data Exchange and B 5.3 Groupware.



