#M 2.80 Creation of a requirement catalog for standard software
Responsible for initiation: Head of Department

Responsible for implementation: Department, Head of IT

To solve a task that is being worked on, the market usually offers a large number of similar standard software products. Comparable in terms of their basic functionality, they differ in criteria such as acquisition and operating costs, additional functionality, compatibility, administration, ergonomics and information security.



## Examples 
* Functional requirements that the product must fulfill in order to support the task of the department. The individual functionalities that are relevant for the specialist task should be emphasized.Substantiated examples: Word processing with the additional functions Including graphics, macro programming, spell checking and hyphenation. Macro programming must be disabled, spellcheck must be available in English, French and German. The specified text formats must be able to be imported and exported. Database (front-end and back-end) for multi-user operation with the support of the standard query language SQL and graphical user interfaces Scheduler for coordinating and checking appointments of the Department employees with integrated appointment coordination, automatic dispatch of invitations and task and priority lists, interface to in-house mail program
* IT deployment environment, which is described on the one hand by the constraints imposed by the existing or planned IT deployment environment and, on the other hand, by the performance requirements imposed by the product on the deployment environment. Example: Required IT deployment environment and Performance requirements: Operating system, processor, memory, hard disk capacity, external media interfaces, and networking
* Compatibility requirements for other programs or IT systems, ie migration support and up- and down compatibility. Examples: Datastores from the existing database XYZ must be able to be accepted. The functions A, B, C must be retained during version changes. Data exchange with the Unix system XYZ must be possible.
* Performance requirements describe the required performance in terms of throughput and runtime behavior. For the required functions, the maximum possible processing time should be given as precisely as possible. Examples: The maximum response time for execution of function X must not exceed 2 seconds. Other processes processed simultaneously d The product may be slowed down by a maximum of 30%.




