#M 2.515 Privacy-friendly cancellation / destruction
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Data Protection Officer, IT Security Officer



## Examples 
* The issue of secure data erasure requires awareness raising among decision makers, administrators, security and privacy officers, and every single user. This can be achieved through appropriate information and training.
* In the respective area of ??responsibility, technical and organizational measures are to be defined which ensure secure deletion of data. They are to be integrated into the comprehensive data protection and security concept. In particular, measures must be taken to prevent the destruction, rental, sorting out, return, repair and maintenance of data carriers.
* The measures must be supported by concrete instructions for the safe deletion. These instructions must take into account the protection needs of the data to be deleted as well as the effort and cost of data recovery.
* Protective data must (as far as possible) already be stored in encrypted form on the data medium. Encrypted file systems should be used for this. Encrypted file systems should also be used for temporary and swap files, as well as for backup copies, as they may also contain sensitive data.
* Data on intact data carriers must be deleted by one-time or multiple, complete overwriting with random numbers. Here, special software tools can be used. The use of uniform overwriting patterns when erasing is not recommended, as this does not protect against extensive laboratory analyzes.
* The one-time, complete overwriting with random numbers should be practiced when deleting data of any kind. The override procedure should consist of at least two, preferably three, passes. The second pass should use the pattern (bit string) that complements the first pass. Random data is recommended for the third run. As a result, an improved protective effect is achieved.
* If an intact data medium is to be sold, rented out, discarded, returned or reused, the entire data carrier must be overwritten several times beforehand with random numbers. This form of reprocessing then allows further use of the data carrier (eg the reinstallation of an operating system).
* The selective deletion of individual files by overwriting is usually problematic. It is useful only if it is ensured that no copies of the data contained in these files have been stored in other locations (such as temporary files, swap files, or backups) or if these locations are uniquely identified and the copies are also securely sealed Can be deleted. It must also be ensured that the metadata of the deleted files is overwritten if they contain sensitive information.
* In the determination of technical-organizational measures as well as instructions for the deletion by overwriting, suitable software tools shall be selected, evaluated and made available to the users concerned on the basis of a list of criteria. The use of the tools is to be checked randomly.
* Defective data carriers whose data can no longer be overwritten with software tools must be made unusable by mechanical or thermal destruction (diskettes, hard disks) or by magnetic flooding (diskettes). In order to ensure the reliability of the procedures, a correct application must be ensured.
* If data carriers have to be removed without secure data deletion (eg repair, return to the manufacturer during the warranty period), this is dependent on the sensitivity of the data by contract Regulations and possibly with claims for damages to prevent unwanted information flows taking place or being exploited by attackers. It may be necessary to waive warranty claims.




