#M 2.240 Planning the use of Novell eDirectory in the extranet
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

eDirectory can also be operated as an e-business platform on the Internet. In this context, eDirectory often acts as an LDAP server, providing data for its users in its directory service. The user connection is made via the LDAP protocol, which is based on TCP / IP.

In principle, users can connect to eDirectory in three different ways via LDAP:

* as a [public] object (Anonymous Bind),
* as Proxy User (Proxy User Anonymous Bind),
* as NDS User (NDS User Bind).


When planning, it is important to consider whether an Anonymous Bind is allowed or not. By default, the [Public] object has unrestricted browse rights to the eDirectory tree.

The planning should include a breakdown of directory data into three categories:

* Data that can be accessed via anonymous login
* Data that may be accessed after successful authentication, as well as
* Data that may not be accessed from outside.


The directory data should be stored in separate areas according to this division. This facilitates, among other things, the execution of data backups and ensuring the correct access protection. An eDirectory server with a direct internet connection should as far as possible not hold data that is not accessible from outside.

If necessary, the use of SSL for LDAP access to the eDirectory must be planned. It is then to decide whether the authentication should be done via passwords or certificates. If SSL is not used, it must be decided whether passwords can be transmitted in clear text or whether the option cleartext passwords is deactivated.

Since the eDirectory server has a direct Internet connection in this application scenario, the use of a firewall must be planned. A suitable procedure can be found in block B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall).



