#M 2.387 Installation, configuration and support of a WLAN by third parties
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

If a WLAN is to be installed, configured or maintained by an external contractor, the following points must be observed for WLANs in addition to the recommendations in module B 1.11 Outsourcing:

* It must always be checked whether a WLAN installation can not be carried out by oneself or whether this can also be done by the own staff. A feasibility and cost audit should be carried out for this purpose.
* The security strategy and also the security policy should always be created by yourself and not by third parties. This prevents that in the institution no one more extensively dealt with the security aspects of WLANs and thus any necessary security measures are forgotten. Consultation and assistance by third parties to avail but makes sense if there are no internal resources for it.
* When assigning a WLAN installation, a detailed specification is to be created. In it, all minimum requirements for the WLAN components and all connected to the WLAN power supplies, etc. are defined exactly. The specifications should be the contractual basis for the award to an external contractor and serve as a basis for the acceptance.
* The contractor must be provided with the security strategy and the security policy for the use of a WLAN. He must be contractually obliged to comply with them and implement them. This must be checked regularly during the implementation of the contractually agreed services in order to identify possible problems early on. The security strategy and the security policy should be an integral part of the specification.
* The contractor should have extensive and preferably long-term experience in setting up and securing a WLAN. Corresponding references must be submitted and at least randomly tested.
* The contractor must be contractually obliged not to disclose the configuration of the WLAN and the WLAN components, as well as passwords, connection keys and access codes and mechanisms, to unauthorized persons. Likewise, the contractor should be required not to cache the information and data that may become known through the work on the rest of the network or to pass it on to unauthorized persons.
* Before the installation of a WLAN by the contractor appropriate test positions are to be carried out. All planned security settings should be thoroughly tested. In this phase, a LAN that may have been connected to the WLAN is at particular risk and appropriate protection should be provided.
* During the installation of a WLAN by the contractor, care should be taken that no backdoors are built into the WLAN by the contractor. All settings and configurations must be documented in detail by the contractor and must be completely handed over to the customer upon completion of the installation.
* After completion of the installation, a check should be made on the basis of the specifications. In addition, the application documents drawn up in the specifications after the award can serve as the basis for the audit, since procedures for acceptance measurements, for example, can be specified here.
* The decrease of the WLAN installation should be done with the help of an independent expert, in order to have the technical details checked in detail.
* If a wireless IDS has also been procured, appropriate test scenarios, which were defined in advance of the call for tenders, must be carried out. Here it makes sense to drive the WLAN initially in a trial operation. It should also be verified whether the entire surveillance area is also detected via the WLAN sensors. Furthermore, different types of interference should be simulated.
* As a main focus, the documentation should also be checked for completeness and any inconsistencies.
* If the WLAN is also to be looked after by an external contractor after installation, the contractor must be contractually obligated not to pass on any information disclosed here, such as passwords, sensitive data, configuration settings etc., to unauthorized persons. Similarly, an emergency preparedness plan should be prepared with the contractor. In this case, the severity level, the reaction time, the respective work steps and who should be informed in case of an emergency should be precisely defined for each possible WLAN problem.




