#M 2.462 Selection criteria for the purchase of Bluetooth devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Individual Bluetooth devices differ in which Bluetooth specifications were used, the available application profiles, and how Bluetooth was implemented by the manufacturers. Therefore, individual criteria have to be defined, which have to be taken into account when selecting Bluetooth devices.

First of all, all devices should be excluded that are known to be vulnerable to Bluetooth vulnerabilities. On the Internet, there are relevant lists of the individual vulnerabilities in which the affected devices are listed.

In addition, it must be determined which application profiles are necessary for the respective intended use of the Bluetooth devices and which must not be included or deactivated. The Bluetooth devices contain the application profiles that are necessary for the respective functions. Thus, a Bluetooth mouse or keyboard always implements the HID profile required for the functions of pointing devices (see M 3.79 Introduction to Bluetooth Basic Terms and Functioning). However, it can have a security-relevant advantage, for example, if a mobile phone does not have a SIM Access Profile, as this allows access to the SIM card of the mobile phone and thus represents a potential point of attack.

In any case, care should be taken when selecting the devices that they at least comply with the Bluetooth specification version 2.1, since they contain essential security features such as secure simple pairing. It should also be ensured that no devices are used that are based on a Bluetooth specification older than version 2.1, since then weaker security mechanisms are used (see M 4.362 Secure Bluetooth configuration). ,

The most important safety-relevant criteria for the selection of Bluetooth components are listed here:

* The Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG) not only continues to develop the Bluetooth specifications, but also reviews and certifies the interoperability of Bluetooth devices. However, there are a large number not on the quality requirements of the Bluetooth SIG certified products in the market. These products may not have the desired level of compatibility. When purchasing, therefore, should be taken to buy only those products that bear the official Bluetooth label.
* The Bluetooth interface can not be deactivated with every Bluetooth device; this should be taken into account during the selection process.
* The Bluetooth specification provides for three classes of performance, through whose respective maximum transmission power the range of the devices is determined. When deciding on devices of performance classes 1 to 3, it should also be taken into consideration that with a higher range the potential circle of attackers also increases.
* For Bluetooth peripheral devices, eg. a headset, the Bluetooth PIN is typically preset or even fixed. Since this means a massive security restriction, care should be taken during procurement that the PIN is as free as possible.
* The Bluetooth device should have the specifications of version 2.1 + EDR implemented. This ensures that the security mode 4 is available in combination with the Secure Simple Pairing functionality.


Before purchasing, make sure that the Bluetooth components support all required profiles. For example, if a profile such as the Advanced Audio Distribution Profile (A2DP) is not supported, it is not possible to transmit high quality audio over Bluetooth.



