#M 2.212 Organizational requirements for the cleaning of buildings
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Internal Service

Responsible for implementation: internal service

The execution of cleaning work is almost exclusively entrusted to external companies. Cleaning personnel who are not part of their own institution must enter all rooms and areas of the building, including building parts such as technical rooms or boardrooms, to which only certain employee groups have access. In addition, the external cleaning staff often use their own work equipment and, depending on the contract, also bring with them detergents and other consumables. This creates weak points, as, for example, internal material could also be taken on the way back.

In addition to general features of a service specification for cleaning work such as type, name and location of the object, room usage groups, current room directories as well as the individual service types are to be described in detail. Activity types can be. For example, cleaning of non-textile and textile coverings, cleaning and care of objects of interior design and furnishings as well as disposal tasks. Building on this, the individual requirements are described, with details of the scope in the individual rooms.

In order not to disturb the work process, cleaning work is often moved to non-working hours. But this also requires clarification as to whether the cleaning staff should be supervised. Ideas for the cleaning times as well as the special treatment of individual areas requiring special protection and which can not be walked on unchecked are to be listed in the service description.

Cleaning staff should be briefed on the tasks before they start working. This includes, above all, briefing on which areas can be accessed under what conditions, how IT systems are to be cleaned or what has to be observed in the environment of IT systems and how they have to deal with confidential information that they have received during their work. This can z. B. documents found on desks or in paper shreds, or overheard conversations.

The entry of cleaning personnel can be particularly problematic in areas with higher security requirements such as data centers, server rooms, technical rooms or communication centers and therefore require additional security measures. In such areas, it may be useful to verify the trustworthiness of the cleaning staff or to supervise them during their work.

If there is confidence in the cleaning company, the access of the cleaning staff should be regulated via the existing access control or the closing system. However, this can only be an effective safeguard if z. B. Badge or key against signature and issued only for a limited time to named or known employees of the cleaning company. In the agreement on the use of permanent staff, the identification system can be used to achieve effective control over compliance with the contract.

For the coordination, but also in the case of occurring problems, the contractor must name an object manager who can be contacted at any time. He must have decision-making power over the staff to be deployed (above all also because of unwanted staff, because they are unwanted).

The special treatment of sensitive areas should already be included in the invitation to tender and the contract formulation. For example, for data centers, random checks on bags or cargo in the access or access area for non-employee personnel should be included in the contracts.

Since IT skills can not be assumed in the case of cleaning staff, they should therefore be instructed in all areas of mission-critical IT systems to determine which activities lead to damage to IT facilities or problems in IT operation You can. Examples of such problem areas are:

* When cleaning keyboards, unintentional input to servers or other key components can interfere with IT operations.
* IT systems can be switched off accidentally.
* Power or communication cables can be damaged by vacuum cleaners or torn from the endpoints.
* Water or cleaning fluid can cause short circuits in hardware components.


Areas with an increased need for backup such as machine room or data archive are only in the presence of the person in charge of the client or in some cases also in the presence of a trusted person of the contractor, eg. B. in the four-eye principle, to clean.



