#M 2.38 Distribution of administrative activities
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Many network operating systems provide the ability to split the administrator role and distribute administration to different users.

For example, under Novell Netware 3.11, the following administrator roles can be set up: Workgroup Manager, User Account Manager, File Server Console Operator, Print Server Operator, Print Queue Operator.

Under Windows NT, administrator roles can be created through the specific assignment of user rights to individual users or, better, to groups. In addition to the group of administrators, here are the groups main users (that is, administrators with restricted rights), backup operators, print operators, server operators, and replication operators. In addition, additional roles can be defined by explicit assignment of user rights (see also M 4.418 Planning for the use of Windows Server 2008).

If there are administrator roles for special tasks, it should be used. In particular, when multiple people are required to be in charge of administrative tasks in large systems, the risk of over-reliance on administrative roles can be reduced by sharing tasks so that administrators do not uncontrollably make unauthorized or unintentional changes to the system can.

Despite the distribution of administration activities, the system usually automatically creates an account for an administrator who is not subject to any restrictions, the supervisor. The supervisor password should only be known to a small group of people, if at all. It must not be known to any of the subadministrators, so they can not extend their rights in this way. The password must be stored securely (see M 2.22 Storing the password). The supervisor login can also be protected by applying the four-eye principle. Eg through organizational measures such as a shared password. The password must have an increased minimum length (12 or more characters). It must be ensured that the password is checked by the system in full minimum length.



