#M 2.519 Regulated user and authorization management in cloud computing
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

Both the cloud service provider user and the cloud user user should use central identity and role-based authorization management.

In general, only so many access rights should be granted to data and information as is necessary for the task perception in the application (principles need to know and least privilege).

In addition to the processes for setting up users and authorizations, it is also necessary to set up regulated processes, such as de-provisioning users and authorizations. This can be done by blocking or deletion. The cloud service provider must ensure that the accounts (identities) and permissions to be blocked or deleted by cloud users are removed at all affected levels of the cloud IT infrastructure. With a central authorization management system, rights can be reliably removed from all affected areas, such as: B. Operating system accounts, storage (cloud storage), self-service portal accounts, databases.

User accounts and permissions should be verified on a regular basis (eg twice a year). It should be checked if the created user is still registered as an active user (otherwise it must be locked or deleted) and if the roles and permissions assigned to him are still correct. In this case also representation regulations are to be considered.



## Examples 
* Cloud services profiles
* Virtualization hosts (start, stop and migrate virtual IT systems, allocate physical resources)
* network
* Storage system
* Self-Service Portal
* Invoicing (english Billing)
* Reporting (English Reporting)
* Middleware (databases, web server)




