#M 2.322 Set a security policy for a client-server network
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

The security requirements for all clients result from the organization-wide security policy. Starting from the general guideline, the requirements for the given context must be specified and summarized in a security guideline for the respective group of clients. In this context, it is necessary to examine whether, in addition to the organization-wide security guideline, further overriding requirements such as IT guidelines, password guidelines or Internet usage requirements must be taken into account.

The security policy must be known to all users and other persons involved in the procurement and operation of the clients and be the basis for their work. As with all directives, their content and implementation must be regularly reviewed by a higher-level audit.

The security policy should specify the level of security generally to be achieved and make basic determinations. To improve the clarity, it may be useful to develop separate security guidelines for different areas of application.

First of all, the general configuration and administration strategy (Liberal or Restrictive) should be defined, as the further decisions depend essentially on this definition.

For clients with normal protection needs, a relatively liberal strategy can be chosen, which in many cases simplifies configuration and administration. In general, however, it is also advisable in these cases to interpret the strategy only as liberally as necessary.

For clients with a high protection requirement, a restrictive strategy is generally recommended. For clients with special protection needs regarding one of the three core values, a restrictive configuration and administration strategy should be implemented.

Here are a few points that should be considered:

* Regulations for the work of the users of the clients: Should a client only be used by a single user at a time, or is it intended to operate with changing users, users may change certain configuration settings themselves (for example, screen background, screensaver or similar) or are all settings set centrally - can users not have access to specific areas of the system? These specifications usually affect the assignment of rights in the system itself as well as the specifications for the installation and basic configuration. What information can be stored locally by the users on the clients? In general, all business-related information should be stored centrally on a server, where it is regularly backed up. Otherwise, care must be taken to ensure that all user information stored locally on the clients is taken into account in the client's backup concept. Users are required to shut down and shut down the computer in the evening, or 24 hours a day For example, fire protection and electricity savings are good examples of switching off client computers at the end of their working day. In addition, hard disks used in client computers are usually not suitable for continuous operation. A continuous operation of the computer may still be desirable, for example, if over night automatic backups run or the computers are used for other applications.
* Regulations for the work of administrators and auditors: According to which scheme are administration rights granted? Which administrator can exercise which rights and how does he obtain these rights? Which access channels should administrators and auditors access to the systems? Which processes and events must be documented? In what form is the documentation created and maintained? Does a four-eye principle apply to certain changes?
* Specifications for installation and basic configuration: Which installation media are used for installation Should a central authentication service be used or is user administration and authentication only local? Regulations for user and role management, authorization structures (procedure and methods of authentication and authorization, authorization for installation, update, configuration changes etc.). If possible, a role concept for the administration should be developed. You may not use collective accounts that use different users with the same identifier. Defaults for the software packages to be installedIf the client's scheduling specified that parts of the file system should be encrypted, then it should be determined how to do so. When using encrypted file systems For this purpose, a separate concept is created and the details of the configuration are documented particularly carefully, since in case of problems (loss of key or passphrase to the key, incorrect configuration or similar) the data is encrypted otherwise file systems could be completely lost.Controls for creating and maintaining documentation


* Requirements for safe operation: Which user group is allowed to log on to the system How can the users authenticate themselves to the demIT system? In general, an automatic login that logs users in without active authentication when the client starts up should be avoided. Will users be able to access one or more LANs or the Internet? Which protocols may be used? For clients that are used as workstations in an organization, it is usually not necessary and often not desirable for ordinary users to access another workstation over the network. What resources should users access? Password usage rules (password rules, rules and situations for password changes, password retention, if any) are provided. Who can shut down the system? If the system is provided with a boot lock that prevents it from booting from external media such as floppy disks, CD-ROMs or USB sticks, it is recommended that such a lock be provided for normal operation only as part of a trouble shooting can be cleared by the administrator if he starts the system with the emergency boot medium (see M 6.24 Creating an Emergency Boot Medium).
* Network communication and services: Should a local packet filter be set up Which external network services should be accessible from the computer Should a distributed file system be integrated? Distributed file systems in which the user data is transmitted unencrypted should only be used in the internal network. If a distributed file system is to be used over an insecure network, it must be secured by additional measures (cryptographically protected VPN, tunneling).


* Logging: What data is logged? How and at what intervals are the log data evaluated? Who carries out the evaluation?


Based on the above points, a checklist can be created that can be helpful in audits or revisions.

The responsibility for the safety directive lies with the safety management. Changes and deviations from this may only be made in coordination with the safety management.

When creating a security policy, it is advisable to proceed in such a way that first of all a maximum of requirements and specifications for the security of the systems is established. These can then be adapted to the actual circumstances. Ideally, this is achieved so that all necessary aspects are taken into account. For each deficient or deficient specification in the second step, the reason for non-consideration should be documented.

With regard to regulations for users, however, it should be noted that these only make sense as far as they are applicable in normal day-to-day work, but also how they can be monitored and enforced. For example, with access restrictions, it is not desirable to prohibit users from accessing specific directories in the security policy, but not to protect them from access by granting them rights. Access restrictions that were set when the security policy was established should therefore always be implemented as far as possible via appropriate specifications for the installation and configuration of the computers.

When formulating the security policy for clients, it is also important to find a balance between security (through functionality limitations and restrictive user rights) and ease of use. If users are restricted by regulations that are not transparent to them and which may even be perceived as bullying, they may in turn be tempted to circumvent these restrictions with particular creativity.

This differentiates the security policy for clients from the corresponding policies, such as for servers or active network components, which usually only address technically savvy users and administrators, to whom many restrictions can be made more plausible.



