#M 2.167 Selection of appropriate methods for deletion or destruction of data
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, IT Leader, Organization Leader

Responsible for implementation: IT Security Officer, Head of IT, Head of Organization

In order to ensure the confidentiality of sensitive information, this information must be destroyed or erased after use in such a way that a reconstruction of the information can be ruled out with high probability.

For safe deletion or destruction, suitable procedures and other suitable equipment, applications or services must be available.

There are several methods for deleting or destroying information on data media. A brief account can be found in M 2.433 Overview of Methods for Deletion and Destruction of Data. The most important recommendations for deleting and destroying the currently used data carriers are briefly outlined here.



## Examples 
* Paper documents: No reliable method available.
* Microfilm, microfiche: No reliable method available.
* Hard disks (with magnetic data carriers), magnetic tape cassettes, floppy disks: overwriting the entire data carrier with a random number pattern and verification.
* Hard disks with semiconductor memory (SSD / Hybrid): At present there is no reliable method for higher protection requirements. It is recommended to completely encrypt the data carrier from the beginning of use. Before disposal, it should be overwritten as mentioned above.
* Optical media (CD, DVD): Rewritable media such as CD-RW or DVD-RW discs can be erased by overwriting any data with normal protection.
* Comprehensive Semiconductor Memory (SRAM, DRAM) The power should be turned off to clear. If present, the backup battery must first be removed. If the protection requirement is very high, the memory must first be overwritten with any data.
* Non-volatile semiconductor memories (EPROM, EEPROM, Flash EPROM) USB stick, flash card, flash disk, PCMCIA cards: In the case of high protection requirements, the entire memory area must be overwritten three times with suitable software.
* Chip Cards: No reliable method available.
* Multifunction devices (copiers, etc.) with hard disks: Overwrite: In the case of normal protection requirements, the information should be deleted from the buffer after printing via a delete function. In the case of high protection requirements, the hard disk must be overwritten with suitable software after each printout. When dispensing or separating a device, M 2.400 must be observed.




