#M 2.556 Planning and implementation of test and release of applications
Responsible for initiation: specialist responsible, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible

For an orderly operation transition of an application and in case of substantial changes, a suitable procedure for testing and release is required. For the planning and implementation of tests as well as the release based on them, four levels are usually to be taken into consideration, in which case different functional groups with their professional perspective are to be included:

* the technical level (represented by specialist responsible persons)
* the level of IT operations (represented by the IT manager)
* the level of information security (represented by the IT Security Officer)
* the level of data protection (represented by the data protection officer)


Depending on the type and complexity of an application, additional functional devices may be required, eg. B. the staff representation.

For all levels mentioned, text and review scenarios as well as criteria for release must be developed. Here should be taken into account:

* At the technical level, measures M 2.62 Software Acceptance and Release Procedures and M 2.83 Standard Software Testing (this measure is also applicable to individual software) should be used, including a procedure for testing, acceptance and testing Describe release.
* IT operations should ensure that the application can be integrated into the IT infrastructure and IT operations.
* Application design and application operation must conform to the set of rules (guidelines, guidelines), concepts (eg crypto concept) and best practices (eg WOWASP) for information security. In particular, it must be ensured that the required safety functions have been implemented and are working properly.
* It must be planned that, if necessary, a data protection clearance will be obtained (see M 2.509 data protection clearance).


The results of the tests or tests must be documented and evaluated. For example, deviations and errors in three categories can be evaluated in terms of their criticality (eg low, medium, high). Based on this assessment, the release officer decides on the release. The releasing officer is usually the institution's management or a functional agent assigned by it. The release is suitable to document, in particular, legal requirements, such. To be considered in writing (see also M 2.85 release of standard software).



