#M 2.32 Establish a limited user environment
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If users only need to perform certain tasks, it is often not necessary to give them all rights associated with their own login, or even system administrator rights. Examples include certain routine administrative tasks, such as creating backups or setting up a new user in a menu-driven way, or activities that require a single user Application program needed. In particular for temporary staff and external service providers, care should be taken that they only use the services and only have access to the data that they actually need. When your activity is over, your accounts should be disabled and all access permissions removed (see also M 4.17 Blocking and Deleting Unused Accounts and Terminals).

For these users a limited user environment should be created. For example, it can be implemented under Unix by a restricted shell (rsh) and a restriction of the access paths with the Unix command chroot. For a user who only needs an application program, this can be entered as a login shell, so that it is started directly after logging in and the user is automatically logged out after the program has finished.

The available functional scope of the IT system can be restricted for individual users or user groups. The use of editor programs or compilers should be prevented if they are not required for the task fulfillment of the user. In the case of stand-alone systems, this can be regulated by the removal of such programs and, in the case of networked systems, by granting rights.



## Examples 
* Times when the user can log in,
* Programs that the user can start and
* Web pages (URLs) that the user can access.




