#M 2.307 Orderly termination of an outsourcing or cloud usage ratio
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: administration / management, specialist responsible

As a rule, the recommendations of this measure can only be implemented if all relevant topics have already been settled at the end of the contract in the contract with the outsourcing service provider or the cloud service provider.

If the service provision is terminated, the affected services, such as the IT-operation, have to be returned to their own responsibility or to another service provider in an orderly manner. Provision must be made so that the termination of the service contract does not affect the business of the institution.

* The transition to another service provider is a new outsourcing or cloud usage project. The measures of the outsourcing module or the cloud usage module must be applied accordingly.
* In insourcing, the relevant measures of the outsourcing component are to be applied analogously. The same applies to the cloud usage component, insofar as it involves the use of a cloud service. The same requirements apply to strategy, security concept for insourcing, migration and emergency preparedness as in a traditional outsourcing or cloud usage procedure.


The following aspects should be considered:

* Property rights to hardware and software (interface programs, tools, batch processes, macros, licenses, backups) must be regulated.
* The reuse of the tools, procedures, scripts, batch programs used by the service provider must be regulated in the event of termination of the service provision.
* IT systems, IT applications and work processes must be sufficiently documented.
* All necessary data must be transmitted or handed over by the service provider to the client.
* All data of the service provider must be safely deleted.
* Internal or external employees who perform the duties of the service provider must be instructed and trained.
* It is advisable to contractually agree on a transitional period in which the former service provider is still available for queries and assistance.




