#M 2.189 Locking of the mobile phone in case of loss
Initiation Initiation: User, IT Security Officer, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: users

If the SIM card or the mobile phone is lost, the SIM card holder will bear the costs of abusive use of the mobile phone connection. Therefore, the SIM card should be immediately blocked by the network operator in order to prevent possible misuse, and thus additional financial damage.

In addition, the PIN query of the SIM card should always be activated (see M 4.114 Using the security mechanisms of mobile phones). In the event of theft or loss, this prevents the SIM card from being used or evaluated by an unauthorized person. With deactivated SIMPIN, an unauthorized user can activate the SIMPIN or render the SIM unusable by multiple incorrect entries. However, the PIN is only requested when the mobile phone is switched on (Power On). If a switched on mobile phone is stolen, it can be used for abusive phone calls at least until the battery is empty.

For smartphones, anti-theft devices are available on the market, allowing them to locate the mobile phone via GPS receivers or cell phones, to erase the data on the device or to completely block the device , Optionally, even automated messages may be sent to the ITU via the lock or whereabouts of a device when, for example, the SIM card has been replaced. Many of these programs also allow messages to be sent to the phone, or simply activate a display message asking the Finder to call the telephone number of the IT service or hand over the device to a specific address. The purchase of such software can pay off quickly if a lost smartphone can be returned more quickly and the data is better protected from thieves. On the other hand, the GPS must be permanently enabled and a mobile connection established. This can lead to an increased battery consumption, in addition the necessary device location can be abused by third parties (see M 5.78 Protection against creating motion profiles during mobile phone use and M 4.115 Securing the power supply of mobile phones).

In order to notice in good time that the SIM card was possibly misused, the itemized bill should always be checked for inexplicable fees and destination numbers.

All data needed to lock the SIM card or mobile phone should be kept within reach, but kept separate from the mobile phone. These are

* the number of the mobile telephone connection and the associated SIM card number,
* the serial number of the mobile phone (GSM-USSD-Code * # 06 #),
* the service number of the network operator under which the blocking request can be reported as well as
* the service number password and the customer number, ie the data required for the authentication to the network operator.




