#M 2.472 Creation of a security policy for PBXs
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The security requirements for the institution's PBX result from the organization-wide security policy. Based on this general guideline, the requirements must be specified and summarized in a safety guideline for the PBX. In this context, it is necessary to examine whether, in addition to the organization-wide security guideline, further overriding requirements such as IT guidelines, password guidelines or requirements such as the use of VoIP (Voice-over-IP) must be taken into account.

The security policy should provide basic information about the availability of the PBX and the confidentiality and integrity of the stored or processed data. It should be noted that there are generally high expectations for availability and confidentiality for communications services. When storing personal data, aspects such as data protection and retention of data must also be taken into account. The latter serve as a basis for security analyzes in case of suspicion or revision.

The security policy for PBXs must be known to all persons and groups involved in the procurement, set-up, implementation and operation of the PBX and should form the basis for their work. As with all directives, their content and implementation must be regularly reviewed by a higher-level audit.

As part of the security policy for PBXs, users should be informed in a concise, understandable form of the hazards associated with the use of a PBX and its communication services (see also M 3.82 Training on telecommunications) safe use of telecommunications systems). It should always take into account current developments in the field of technology and newly disclosed hazards. This information should sensitize and motivate users to comply with this policy.

In addition to the features of a traditional PBX system such as Toggle, Rckckfrage, call back on busy, call waiting and also on an existing call, conference call and pick up a call, have hybrid systems and VoIP Systems through the coupling of properties of the classic PBX and IT systems in addition to a variety of other IT-based functions. For example, voice messages and faxes can be transmitted via e-mail, calls initiated and relayed by an application on the PC at the click of a mouse, and the current availability of a subscriber displayed. The directive should therefore specify which functions and features of the PBX should be used. In addition, it must be determined who may use which services for which purposes. In this context, the scope of private use should also be specified.

Furthermore, safety measures must be observed, which regulate the selection and installation of the required safety hardware and software as well as specifications for the secure configuration of the PBX and its terminals. When using a hybrid system or a VoIP system, these are additionally the guidelines that apply to these systems. In some cases, it may be useful for users to be able to make certain configuration settings, such as locking the telephone terminal in the absence, directly on the terminal itself. This should be noted in the guidelines, otherwise prohibited.

It makes sense, for example, to include the following points in the guidelines:

* Physical Access Control Regulations: A PBX should generally be located in a separate security area, such as a lockable computer room. It is to be regulated who should receive access to the room or access to the system itself. Access to the administration, which as a rule can be carried out via an administration software but also via separate terminals, should be limited to the TK operating personnel (see also M .2.27 Maintenance of a PABX system).
* Regulations for the work of the administrators: It has to be determined according to which scheme the administration rights are assigned. It has to be considered whether the tasks of the administrator for the IT systems are separated from those of the person responsible for the PBX. It must be stated which administrator is allowed to exercise which rights and how he obtains these rights. In a further step, the access routes through which the administrators access the systems must be determined. Conceivable is the local access to the PBX itself, via its own administration network or via the remote maintenance interface (see also M 5.14 Securing of internal remote accesses of TK-Anlagenund M 5.15 Securing of external remote access by PBXs).


In addition, it must be determined which procedures must be documented and in what form the documentation is created and maintained. These include the following requirements for installation and configuration:

* Procedure for the installation of the entire PBX and the terminals,
* Checking and, if necessary, changing the default settings with regard to their safety precautions and changing the default passwords;
* Use and configuration of the PBX and terminals,
* Documentation and backup of the configuration.


Requirements for safe operation should be made, such as:

* Securing the administration (technical limitation of access to the administration to the TK operating staff),
* Logging all logon attempts to the PBX, logging and regular control of remote maintenance access,
* permitted tools for operation and maintenance,
* Disconnection of other, not intended for access,
* Assignment of permissions,
* Procedures for Software Updates and Configuration Changes,
* Data backup and recovery,
* Fault response, technical faults (local support, remote maintenance) and security incidents.


Also, the safe disposal of the components of the PBX should be noted in the security policy. For example, connection data and other personal data are stored on data carriers in the PBX. Terminals are often labeled externally with names on speed dial keys, IP addresses, telephone numbers or other technical information. The individual components must be destroyed in such a way that a reconstruction of the data is not possible.

The responsibility for the implementation of the security guideline for telecommunications systems lies with the IT operation. Changes and deviations from this may only be made in coordination with the IT security officer.



