#M 2.274 Representation rules for e-mail use
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, Supervisor

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

For the processing of e-mails - as with every other task - a representative has to be named for each employee. In the event of a scheduled absence, employees should then set up e-mail forwarding for the agent or allow access to their mailbox. In spontaneous absence, z. Because of illness, other regulations can ensure timely e-mail processing. For example, the antechamber of the affected department can inform the IT managers, who in turn switch to the e-mail server. However, this is only permissible if it is clearly stipulated that e-mail may only be used for business purposes. Users should also be notified by e-mail about forwarding. Once they are back in the house, they should inform the IT manager that the transfer can be lifted.

Alternatively, task-related e-mail addresses can also be set up as an alternative. Here, too, of course, it must be ensured that incoming e-mail is processed promptly at any time.

Many e-mail clients offer the option of activating a service before long periods of absence (autoreply, under Outlook Out of Office Assistant), which ensures that each sender of an e-mail receives one during the given absence Message is received that this recipient is temporarily not reachable. This often has advantages, but often results in too much information about the user and the organization being disseminated externally.

On the other hand, despite such notification of absence, the sender is usually left in the dark as to how to handle his e-mail further. The question then arises as to whether the e-mail remains unprocessed until further notice or has been forwarded to a representative.

Therefore, all users should be careful not to disclose the exact time of absence or information about internals, such as telephone numbers or organizational units. These can be used for attacks via social engineering (see G 5.42 Social Engineering). Staff should be briefed on how to set up absence notifications, eg. Via an appropriate intranet notice.

In any case, representatives should be named for all longer periods of absence. This can also be communicated to outsiders via such mechanisms as the Out of Office Assistant so that they know that the email has arrived and is being processed.

Note: Most e-mail programs with Autoreply feature also provide the ability to control the notification based on criteria that users can set themselves. This can then be used to preset, for example, that internal e-mail senders receive different answers than external ones. However, deeper knowledge of the e-mail client is usually required for this. Therefore, if rules are to be used to control autoreply functions, the administrators should prepare them accordingly for the users.



