#M 2.306 loss report
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

In case of failure, defect, destruction, loss or theft of an official IT system, this should be reported immediately. This also applies to private devices that are used for business purposes and for mobile data carriers. There should be clear reporting channels and contact persons in each organization.

Also, defects in low-priced disks should be reported so that IT management can see if larger shipments are affected. Especially with data carriers that are used for data backup and archiving, a high degree of reliability and a long service life are important. In turn, a loss or theft must be dealt with quickly, as this is not just about recovering the equipment, but also about preventing potential misuse of the information involved.

Laptops, smartphones, tablets, PDAs and similar devices, as well as mobile data carriers such as USB sticks, may contain sensitive data that requires immediate action, such as:

* Access data such as passwords: All access data in the possibly affected IT system must be changed immediately.
* Information classified as confidential (eg patient records): All affected areas (eg department, customers, etc.) must be notified in order to take appropriate action.


If mobile devices with a wireless connection are lost, measures should be taken to block, delete and locate the mobile devices. Most mobile device management solutions offer these features. For this purpose, clear rules must be defined in advance and appropriate measures must be taken immediately in consultation with the user whose terminal device was lost (see M 6.159 Prevention of loss and theft of smartphones, tablets and PDAs). ,

If lost devices or data carriers reappear, they should be inspected for possible tampering. For example, if screws have been opened, seals have been removed or the weight has changed compared to the delivery condition. If there is a suspicion, the device should either be disposed of immediately or further examined by a specialist. To ensure that there are no manipulated programs on the recovered devices, the devices must at least be reinstalled (see M 4.28 Software reinstallation when changing the user of a laptop). Rescued media should be treated with the same care as malicious software might be present.



