#M 2.5 Task distribution and separation of functions
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: IT Security Officer, Head of IT, Head of Organization

The functions to be performed by the authority or the company in connection with the use of IT must be defined. To distinguish here are two levels:

* The first level consists of the functions that enable or support the use of IT such as work preparation, data postprocessing, operating, programming, network administration, rights management, revision.
* The second level consists of the functions that apply the IT procedures that are available to perform the task. Examples of such functions include: subject manager, IT application maintainer, data collector, clerk, payment arranger.


In the next step, the separation of functions is to be defined and justified, ie. which functions are incompatible with each other, and therefore can not be perceived by one person at the same time. Requirements for this can result from the tasks themselves or from legal provisions. Examples of these are:

* Rights management and revision,
* Network administration and revision,
* Programming and testing with own software,
* Data collection and payment order authorization,
* Revision and payment authorization.


In particular, it becomes clear that mostly operative functions are not compatible with controlling functions.

Once the separation of functions has been determined, the functions can be assigned to persons. Representative regulations must also be taken into account and documented (see also M 3.3 substitution regulations).

The stipulations made here must be documented and updated in the event of changes in IT use. Should a person have to assume incompatible functions in this assignment, this should be emphasized in a corresponding documentation about the distribution of functions.



