#M 2.251 Definition of security requirements for outsourcing projects
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

Once an outsourcing strategy has been defined, the security requirements must be worked out in such a concrete way that the appropriate service provider can be selected on the basis of these. In this case, security requirements must be placed on the outsourcing service provider himself, the technology used (including communication channels and services), but also on his own organization. The elaboration of a detailed security concept, which is based on the requirements formulated here and elaborated after selection of the service provider, is described in M .2.254 Development of a security concept for the outsourcing project.

It should be noted that setting security requirements is an iterative process:

* Zum chat the desired safety requirements are specified by the client.
* Then, in the bidding phase, a comparison is made as to whether and how the desired security requirements can be met by the offering service providers (see also M 2.252 Selection of a suitable outsourcing service provider).
* If a service provider has been selected, the further refinement of the security requirements (eg based on the operating systems or security mechanisms used) must be worked out with this. In the final phase of this coordination process, the security requirements for the concrete implementation must then be defined.


In general, the following minimum security requirements arise for outsourcing scenarios:

* The implementation of IT-Grundschutz is a minimum requirement for both outsourcing parties. In addition, both outsourcing service providers and the client must own a security concept and implement it.
* It is important to clearly delineate the relevant IT associations (eg, according to specialist task, business process, IT systems), so that all interfaces can be identified. Appropriate technical security requirements can then be set at the interfaces.
* An actual structural analysis of IT systems and applications (see also M 2.250 definition of an outsourcing strategy) must be carried out.
* There must be a determination of protection requirements (eg of applications, systems, communication connections, rooms) with regard to confidentiality, integrity and availability (see also M 2.250 Definition of an outsourcing strategy).


Of course, relevant laws and regulations must be observed. This can be particularly costly in cases where clients or service providers operate on a cross-border or global basis.

As part of the security requirements, it must be determined which rights (eg access rights, access rights to data and systems) are assigned to the outsourcing service provider by the client.

The requirements for infrastructure, organization, personnel and technology must be described. It often suffices here for a security level that corresponds to IT-Grundschutz. If any additional requirements exist, these must be described in detail. This depends crucially on the security strategy and already existing systems and applications. For example, the following points might be detailed depending on the outsourcing project:



## Examples 
* Requirements for safety-critical organizational processes (eg time restrictions for the alerting plan) can be specified.
* Special requirements for specific roles can be specified. For example, it may be required that an IT security officer with special knowledge (eg host knowledge) must be appointed to the outsourcing service provider.




