#M 2.311 Planning of protective cabinets
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Procurement, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Procurement, building services

The use of protective cabinets can be useful for various reasons, eg. as a replacement for a server room or to increase the protection of a server room. Since the costs for protective barriers are not insignificant, a concept based on the requirements of the planned deployment scenarios should first be created. Among other things, it must be questioned which components should be protected by the protective cabinet against which threats, ie z. whether they should protect their contents against the effects of fire or against unauthorized access.

In addition, a cost comparison is highly recommended. The costs associated with the procurement and maintenance of a protective cabinet must be compared with the costs for the construction of a server room or data archive and its maintenance.

When planning the room in which the protective cabinet is installed, fire protection measures up to and including the installation of a security alarm system, if applicable inside the protective cabinet, must ensure that adequate physical security is provided. This also means that, as far as possible, there should be no water-bearing lines, as leaks can cause major damage, for which not every protective cabinet is adequately protected. If the protective cabinet is to be used as a server cabinet, additional measures such as overvoltage protection, emergency stop switch, air conditioning, UPS and possibly also a remote display of faults are to be provided, depending on the need for protection.



