#M 2.115 Supervision and maintenance concept for teleworking stations
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT manager, teleworker

For teleworking, a special care and maintenance concept has to be created, which includes the following points:

* Naming User Service Contacts: This is where remote workers can contact for software and hardware issues. The user service tries to provide assistance (also by telephone) at short notice or initiates maintenance and repair work. For this, the user service should know the configuration of the telework computers.
* Maintenance dates: The dates for maintenance work on the teleworking devices should be announced in good time, so that the teleworkers grant the maintenance technicians access to the home office or access to the teleworking computer or the IT equipment to be serviced at these times into the institution.
* Introduction of standard teleworkers: The IT equipment of all teleworkers in an institution should be standardized so that the user service can quickly help with problems. It also simplifies the conceptual and administrative effort required to set up a secure teleworking computer.
* Remote maintenance: If the teleworking computer can be administered and maintained via remote maintenance, the necessary security measures must be determined. In addition, the time for on-line maintenance access must be agreed with the teleworkers concerned. In order to prevent the misuse of the remote maintenance access (see M 5.33 Securing remote maintenance), appropriate safeguards must be established.
* Transport of IT: It should be determined for reasons of liability who is authorized to transport IT equipment and other equipment for teleworking between the institution and the home offices of teleworkers. At the same time the protection of the devices must be considered. A laptop, for example, can be transported by the teleworker personally, but should be provided with an anti-theft device and the information encrypted.


Further regulations can be taken from the measure M 2.4 regulations for maintenance and repair work.



