#M 2.6 Assignment of access authorizations
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of Organization

Before assigning access authorizations for persons, the protected areas of a building must be determined, eg. Office, data archive, server room, operating room, machine room, document archive, data center. The protection requirements of a room are derived from the protection requirements of the information processed in the respective room, the IT systems available there and the data carriers that are stored and used in this room.

Then it must be determined which person needs which access right to perform the function. In doing so, the previously developed function separation (M 2.5 task distribution and function separation) must be taken into account. Unnecessary access rights are to be avoided.

In order to minimize the number of persons entitled to access to a room, the principle of segregation of functions should be taken into account. So z. B prevents. separate storage of IT spare parts and data carriers the unauthorized access of a service technician to the data carriers.

The assignment and withdrawal of access authorizations must be documented. When withdrawing an access authorization, the withdrawal of the means of access must be ensured. In addition, it must be documented which conflicts have arisen during the assignment of access authorizations to persons. There may be grounds for conflict because persons perceive functions that conflict with the separation of functions in terms of access authorizations, or due to spatial necessities.

To monitor the access authorization, persons (clerks, closing services) or technical facilities (passport readers, biometric procedures such as iris scanners or fingerprints, security locks or locking systems) can be used (see M .2.14 Key Management ). Access to protected rooms by unauthorized personnel (eg visitors, cleaning and maintenance personnel) may only be carried out in the presence or accompanied by authorized persons.

Regulations on the assignment and withdrawal of access authorizations for outside personnel and visitors must also be taken.



