#M 2.122 Uniform e-mail addresses
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

E-mail addresses should be assigned based on clear naming conventions. It is important that no non-ASCII characters such as umlauts are used within e-mail addresses.

In order to make attacks more difficult, to avoid spam and advertising e-mail, and to pass on as little information as possible to the outside world, it may be useful instead of user- and organization-related e-mail addresses such as nachname@organisation.de to use erratable e-mail addresses. However, this also makes address forwarding more uncomfortable and can make communication with external parties more difficult.

If e-mail addresses are changed or dropped, care must be taken that, at least for a transitional period, e-mails addressed to these addresses are forwarded to the current addresses.



## Examples 
* E-mails to function-related addresses can, if necessary, be distributed directly to deputies. As a result, a timely processing can be achieved even in the absence of the main contact person. If e-mails to function-related addresses are not forwarded directly to the respective contact person, but stored in separate mailboxes, this has an additional advantage in terms of data protection. In this case, in the case of an unplanned absence (for example accident, illness) of the actual recipient, it is not necessary to open his personal mailbox.
* When changing the responsibility, not all communication partners must be informed. In this case, only all e-mails addressed to the function-related e-mail address must be forwarded to the new contact persons.
* Functional e-mail addresses can be named meaningfully, for example: B.beratung @ ..., webmaster @ ..., vertrieb @ ..., which makes it easier to remember than personal addresses.
* By addressing to the function-related e-mail address, the recipients can also recognize, independent of the subject, which topic is likely in the e-mail.




