#M 2.82 Development of a test plan for standard software
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Head of Department, Head of IT

The testing procedure described below is based on the standard works DINISO / IEC12119 Software Products, Quality Requirements and Test Provisions, Procedure Model for Planning and Execution of IT Projects (V Model) and the Manual f  r the evaluation of the security of information systems (ITSEM), which are recommended as further literature.

Before deciding on a suitable standard software product, the short-listed products (see M 2.81 pre-selection of a suitable standard software product) must be procured as a test license and sufficiently tested. If it was not possible to test the product before procurement due to time constraints, internal procurement recommendations (compliance with house standards) or other reasons, it is essential to carry out tests before final commissioning , The results of these tests then provide the basis for the installation instructions and other release conditions.

Although a pre-selection of the necessary product requirements has already taken place on the basis of the manufacturer's statements, it can not be assumed that these requirements will be fulfilled to the desired extent. Rather, the suitability and reliability of the product must now be checked by systematic testing on the basis of the catalog of requirements in order to select the most suitable product.

It makes sense to divide the testing into four areas:

* Receipt checks (computer virus check, ability to run in the desired IT deployment environment, ....),
* functional tests (checking the functional requirements),
* Testing of other functional characteristics (compatibility, performance, interoperability, compliance with regulations or laws, ease of use, maintainability, documentation); and
* safety-related tests (checking safety requirements).


The basic procedure for testing standard software is shown in the following figure.



On the basis of the hit list created during the preselection, those products are to be selected which are to be tested. Then a test plan is developed.

This includes the following contents:

* Determination of the test contents based on the requirements catalog,
*  checking of references,
* Determination of the overall test expenditure,
* Time planning including test effort per test content,
* Determination of test persons,
* Test environment,
* Content of the test documentation,
* Determination of decision criteria.


The individual points mentioned below are explained below.



## Examples 
* For safety-specific requirements, the test depth can be additionally relativized according to the required mechanism strength.
* The testing costs for the incoming tests should be low compared to the other tests.




