#M 2.132 Regulation for the establishment of database users / user groups
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The establishment of users / user groups from a database is a prerequisite for the appropriate assignment of access rights (see M 2.129 Access Control of a Database) and for ensuring an orderly and supervised operation. In principle, each database user receives an internal database ID that identifies the database system. This allows only authorized persons to access the database.

Modifying operations (update, insert, delete, etc.) that are not performed by the DBMS but by users with administration privileges pose a high risk that can destroy the database. The assignment of modifying rights to the system tables should therefore be waived. Even read access should be restricted, since all information in the database can be determined via the system tables.

Based on M 2.30 User / User Group Setup, a form should be created to initially request from each user or user group the required data required for organized user management:

* Name first Name,
* Proposal for the user ID (if not stipulated by convention),
* Organizational unit,
* Accessibility (eg e-mail, telephone, room),
* Approval of superiors,
* Project (optional),
* Applications to use and access the database system (optional),
* Information about the planned activity in the database system and the necessary rights as well as the duration of the activity (optional) and
* Restrictions on times, access permissions (for certain tables, views, etc.), limited user environment (optional).


There should be a limited number of rights profiles. A new user is then assigned to one or more profiles and thus receives exactly the rights required for his / her activity. In doing so, the database-specific options must be used when setting up users and groups that are to be taken into account when selecting the database software (see M 2.124 Appropriate selection of database software). It makes sense to specify naming conventions for the user and group IDs (eg user ID = organizational unit number plus serial number).

User, role and group profiles can be used. However, as far as possible, no user-specific profiles should be used, as this will entail a high administrative effort for a large number of users. When defining group profiles, one has to consider between restrictive and generous authorization profiles. If the group profiles are too restrictive, a large number of groups have to be managed, which leads to a high administrative effort. On the other hand, if the group profiles are defined too generously, there may be redundancies between different groups, or the provision of unnecessarily extensive rights, which in turn may result in a breach of confidentiality or integrity of data.

Each user must be assigned a separate database ID, so multiple users may not work under the same ID.

In general, a distinction must be made between the database ID and the user ID of the underlying operating system. However, some manufacturers offer in their database software the possibility to adopt the operating system identifier into the database system. This saves the users an authentication for the access to the database, if they already registered with their own operating system identifier.

For example, so-called OPS $ identifiers can be used under Oracle. Such an identifier consists of the prefix OPS $ and the operating system identifier of the user. Only when a user logs on to the database system with his operating system ID, no password is requested by the DBMS. On the other hand, if the user logs on under a different identifier, a password query takes place.

However, this possibility entails the risk that access to the database can no longer be prevented in the event of unauthorized authentication at the operating system level (eg when the corresponding password protection is overcome). Therefore, before using OPS $ tags, it should be checked if the operating system security mechanisms on the clients are adequate for the given use case.

In the case of the requirement for an easy handling for the users (keyword Single Sign-On - SSO) alternatively the employment of an additional product for the central user administration for the entire IT operation should be considered. But here, too, the concrete safety requirements must be compared with the corresponding additional product.



