#M 2.313 Secure login to Internet services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

Many Internet services require users to log in to use them. This usually requires at least the specification of a user name and a password, but often more information is requested, such as eg. First name and surname, employer, e-mail address, etc. If Internet services are used for official purposes, the regulations of the institution for Internet use should be observed, which should, among other things, describe the information provided by the Internet Registration and use of the services may be made (see M 2.458 guideline for Internet use).

Each user should carefully consider what information is provided here, as this may, for example, trigger unwanted promotions. In order to avoid this, as little detailed information as possible should be passed on and the privacy notice should be read carefully. Whenever personal information is provided, users should consider the extent to which they really wish to disclose it to the service provider and what further use they consent to. If a working e-mail address is required but the official or private e-mail address is not required as the sender address, you can use disposable e-mail addresses that are   can be generated via free Internet services.

If certain Internet services are used on a regular basis for professional purposes, the institution should, as far as possible, devise guidelines for the employees as to how the individual fields should be completed during the registration process.

The password for the respective Internet service should be selected with appropriate care (see also M 2.11 Control of Password Usage). Above all, such passwords should not match a password that should protect important data, so for example. the office computer.

If personal data must be provided at the time of registration, this should only be SSL-secured as far as possible (see also M 5.66 Client-side use of SSL / TLS). If the use of an offer requires the disclosure of sensitive data via an unsecured connection, it should be carefully considered whether this offer should be used.

Many Internet services offer a password recovery function, which is a way to save money when a user forgets their password. In order to do this, a number of questions often have to be answered in advance. The answers are stored by the service provider and the user is asked if he has forgotten his actual password. The questions are often prefabricated, often z. B. asked for the name of the mother or pet, favorite color or birthplace. Unfortunately, only a few service providers offer the opportunity to specify the question themselves.

Note: Many social engineering or phishing attacks do not ask for passwords bluntly, but seemingly inquire about the pet or favorite color. Therefore, it makes sense not to give truthful answers to recovery functions, but ones that are not attacked, but which you can remember yourself.



