#M 2.24 Introduction of an IT passport
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The first step in creating a security plan is to get an overview of the existing systems, applications, and data. For a small institution, it is generally effective to act on existing IT systems. Therefore, a corresponding overview should be available. One possibility is to fill out an IT passport for each IT system, which summarizes the most important information about the IT system.

The IT passport should give IT managers an overview of the existing IT systems in the institution and enable them to respond quickly and effectively in the event of problems. The IT passport should always be used wisely if it is a very small institution with few IT systems, which does not make extensive structural analyzes worthwhile. For this purpose, the following information should first be recorded for each IT system:

* Name of the IT system (inventory number)
* Contact person for problem cases, eg. B.Service and hotline numbers for system failure and maintenance
* Information about the operating system
* Information about the virus scanner
* Location of the system (room)
* Overview of the most important information and applications stored or running on the system
* Protection requirements depend on basic values ??Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability
* Information about system installation and system configuration
* available accessories
* performed maintenance and repairs
* Type of backups performed


Note: The printers connected directly to the terminals are not recorded as stand-alone components but as part of the respective terminal. In the IT passages, they can be listed under peripherals or hardware.

Similar IT systems such as user PCs can also be grouped together. For mobile phones, PDAs or similar devices, IT passports should also be summarized, with the fields in the passport adapted accordingly.

Also for telephone systems and connections to data networks, the most important information should be documented in the form of an IT passport.

In order to document the protection requirements of an IT system, the IT passport should record for each important application whether For example, personal data may be processed and the need for protection determined by the basic values ??of confidentiality, integrity and availability.

In addition, the security measures taken can be documented in the IT system so that, for example, B. can be reacted quickly in the event of damage.

The IT passports should be kept either by the security management or by the administrator. They can also be completed by employees, but then have to be checked in terms of content and completeness. The IT passports should be stored centrally, but should also be available locally as far as possible. Since many similar answers occur with similar IT systems such as PCs, it is helpful to manage the IT passages electronically. The IT passports should be stored centrally, but should also be available locally as far as possible.

If changes are made to an IT system, the entries in the IT passport must be adapted immediately, so that the documentation is always up-to-date.

IT passports make it easier to carry out control activities, as the documentation of all relevant changes and security measures taken is based on IT passports. In addition, the management of such IT passages supports the regular maintenance of IT and security measures, for example with regard to data backups. This therefore also serves the emergency preparedness.

A sample of such an IT passport can be found under the IT Baseline Protection tools on the BSI web server in the IT Baseline Protection Profile for a small institution.



