#M 2.204 Prevention of unsecured network access
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, auditor

Any unsecured access to a network presents a huge security gap. Therefore, any communication to the internal network must be invariably made via secure access. This can be, for example, a firewall (see block "B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall)").

Arrangements must be made so that no further external connections can be created bypassing the firewall. All users must be aware of the dangers of creating wild approaches, such as: B.ber brought modems are connected.

All external network accesses should be recorded centrally (see module B 4.1 Local networks). Furthermore, random checks should be carried out to determine whether modems or other additional network accesses were created. For this purpose z. B. automatically predefined number ranges can be tested as to whether data transmission devices are there.

The data transfer should be clearly regulated in all institutions. All data transmission facilities should be approved and their use clearly regulated. This concerns z. For example, not only routers, modems or UMTS cards, but also infrared or wireless interfaces. In particular, the following points should be specified:

* Definition of the user group and the user rights
* Specifications and safety measures for use
* Secure configuration of data transmission equipment
* Responsibilities for installation, maintenance and support
* Definition of the possible communication partners
* usage times
* logging


Examples of this can be found in M 2.61 Control of Modem Use or M 2.179 Regulations for Fax Server Use.



