#M 2.381 Defining a strategy for Wi-Fi use
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Before WLANs are deployed in an organization, it must be determined which general strategy the organization adopts with regard to WLAN usage. In particular, it must be clarified in which organizational units, for which applications and for what purpose WLANs are used and which information can be communicated. At the same time, it should also be specified in which spatial areas WLANs are to be set up (meaning this can be meaningful, for example, in environments in which the users often move within certain areas) and in which areas WLANs do not exist d (Up to active shielding).

WLAN components can be used, for example, to

* to provide an institution, a single department or a production area with a radio network
* allow the use of mobile components in individual rooms, so z. In meeting rooms,
* to offer a WLAN commercially for use by third parties (hotspots).


Radio networks can be set up with or without coupling to other networks, which also significantly influences the vulnerability and thus also the security measures to be taken. Depending on the intended purpose and environment of use, the required safety measures can differ considerably. In any case, this must be taken into account when formulating the security guidelines and regulations for WLAN use. The decision should be documented together with the decision-making reasons.

When building a wireless network, considerable planning effort is required to achieve the stability, transmission quality and security required for professional use (see also M 2.383 Selection of a suitable WLAN standard and M 5.140 Structure of a distribution Systems).

The IT managers and the security management of an institution should be aware that in wireless communication systems, especially WLANs, many technical aspects are rapidly being developed and modified. For IT managers and security management, this means on the one hand that a higher effort is generally required for the secure operation of WLANs and, on the other hand, that security measures are taken at shorter intervals than in the case of WLAN other systems must be tested for their effectiveness and adapted to changes.

In order to be able to operate wireless networks and the associated IT systems safely, the following points are essential:

* The operation and technology of the wireless communication systems used must be fully understood by the person responsible for the operation.
* The safety of the technology used should be evaluated on a regular basis. Likewise, the security settings of the IT systems used (eg access points, laptops, PDAs) should be regularly examined.
* Wireless LAN usage must be anchored in the security policy of the institution, and any change in WLAN usage must be coordinated with security management.
* In order to reliably secure the transmitted data, specifications must be worked out which, among other things, deal with the selection of adequate encryption and authentication methods, their configuration and key management.
* It has to be defined which WLAN standards, e.g. B. IEEE 802.11g, should be supported by the WLAN components at least, in order to ensure a secure interaction of the individual components and to be able to use the required security mechanisms across the board.




## Examples 
* Is it determined for which organizational units, for which area and for which applications the WLAN usage is allowed?
* Is the organization's security policy governing the use of WLAN?
* Are the security requirements for the WLANs used regularly checked by security investigations?
* Are changes in the WLAN infrastructure and / or terms of use aligned with IT security management?




