#M 2.375 Appropriate choice of VoIP systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Procurement, IT Manager

The various manufacturers of TK products offer numerous solutions for telephony. In addition to pure devices for VoIP and for analog and digital telephony, products that support both architectures can also be acquired. Examples are PBXs for circuit-switched networks that have an IP connection and gateways that can be switched between a VoIP architecture and a public switched-line telephone network. In addition to the basic functionality, such as the support of the required signaling and media transport protocols, numerous safety-related aspects must be taken into account.

Before purchasing VoIP components, a list of requirements must be drawn up to evaluate the products available on the market. Based on the evaluation, a sound purchasing decision can then be made, which ensures that the product to be procured meets the requirements in practical operation.



## Examples 
* Should a VoIP appliance or a solution that can be run on a standard PC be procured? In any case, the most complex operating system must be configured so that only the functions that are really needed are activated and the access rights restrictive and weaknesses are systematically eliminated.
* Does the product support all the necessary protocols?
* Is training offered by the manufacturer or an independent supplier to the product?
* Is there reliable information about the reliability and reliability of hardware and software?
* Can the VoIP components meet the demands on performance?
* Is the product evaluated by formal methods, such as the Common Criteria?
* Is the VoIP component interoperable with existing products?
* Do the VoIP components support secure login and secure user management?
* Does the supplied product documentation contain a detailed description of all technical and administrative details?
* Is the possibility of concluding maintenance contracts offered for the VoIP components? Often access to updates and support services from the manufacturer is only possible in conjunction with a valid maintenance contract. Can the maintenance agreements set maximum response times for troubleshooting? Does the manufacturer offer a technical support service (hotline) that can help in case of problems?
* Is it easy to install, configure, and administer the product?




