#M 2.112 Regulation of file and data carrier transport between home workplace and institution
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: employees

For official tasks to be carried out in a home office, all the necessary information must be available there. Files, data media and other documents must be transported safely. For this purpose, the way in which data carriers are exchanged between the home and the workplace must be regulated. The following points should therefore be considered or regulated at least:

* Which files, data carriers and documents may be exchanged via which transport route (postal service, courier, parcel service, ...) (see M 5.23 Selection of a suitable method of dispatch for data carriers)?
* What protective measures should be observed during transport? This also includes the selection of suitable packaging (see also M 2.44 Secure packaging of the data carriers). Information on digital media should be encrypted before being transported to prevent unauthorized reading.
* Which files and data carriers can only be transported personally?


Since documents, documents and files are often unique, when selecting a suitable file exchange procedure, the damage in the event of loss must be taken into account. As far as possible and permissible, copies should be made prior to the data medium exchange.

All affected employees must be informed about how files and data carriers are to be transported and adequately protected.



