#M 2.230 Planning the Active Directory Administration
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The Active Directory consists of various objects that are organized like a tree. Each object consists of specific attributes that store the object information. Objects are used to administer a Windows system from version 2000, which must be done by an authorized administrator. For all Active Directory objects, authorizations can be assigned that control access to the objects. This can be used to specify which objects can be changed by which users in a specific way, such as the creation of users or the resetting of user passwords.

A standard installation of the Windows Server 2000 and Windows 2003 Server server operating systems (hereafter referred to as the Windows server) means that only administrators have the right to make changes to objects and thus manage a domain. Users usually have maximum read access.

In general, even under Windows server, the administrative power of the administrators of the domain ends at the domain boundary. Only the members of the group Organizational Admins have full access to all AD objects in every domain of a forest, irrespective of the access rights set for these objects. By default, these are the members of the Forest Root Domain (FRD) Administrators group.

In large domains, the delegation of administrative tasks is advisable, so that the administrative burden is distributed among several administrators or, in some cases, a role segregation can be implemented. The delegation of administrative tasks takes place in the Active Directory by assigning appropriate access rights to Active Directory objects for the respective administrator groups. The Active Directory right structure allows fine granular rights. In this way z. B. Allow an administrator to create user accounts and reset user passwords, but not delete user accounts or move them to other organizational units (OUs). In order to simplify the assignment of uniform rights within a complete subtree, it is also possible to inherit rights of an object to objects in the subtree. Since the assumption of inherited rights by certain objects in the subtree is not desirable under the circumstances, the assumption for objects can also be blocked, so that here quite complex scenarios for the distribution of Authorizations can result (see also M 3.27 Active Directory Management Training).

From a security point of view, the following aspects have to be taken into consideration when planning the Active Directory administration:

* Where delegation is used, only the essential rights required to perform the delegated administrative duties should be given.


* The delegation model and the resulting rights assignments must be documented.
* The administrative activities should be delegated in such a way that no overlaps arise as far as possible. Otherwise, two administrators can make contradictory changes. This leads to replication conflicts, which are automatically resolved by Windows servers, so that one of the changes prevails in any case. However, there are no warnings for this case. It is therefore advisable to design the administration model in such a way that as far as possible overlapping responsibilities exist. In this way, the risk of replication conflicts can be reduced. If replication conflicts are to be expected or have already occurred, a manual check should be carried out at regular intervals or after important changes, as to whether the correct values ??have always prevailed. Whether it makes organizational sense to keep an evidence database with the Active Directory target data, must be decided on a case-by-case basis.


* If the administration of the Active Directory is delegated, this is achieved by assigning appropriate access rights within the Active Directory. In general, the inheritance mechanism is used to manage permissions on objects in sub-trees. Complex scenarios with delegation and thus rights inheritance should, however, be avoided at all costs, as otherwise security gaps can easily arise. For example, it may happen that a user has too few or too many rights.


* A concept for membership in the various administrative groups must be drafted. In particular, the conditions and procedures that define whether, when and how long a user or a user group is included in an administrative group must be defined. In particular, care must be taken to restrictively manage and control membership in the group of organizational admins. If the organizational flow permits, consideration may be given to removing all members in that group after building the domain structure and to add members only when needed and in compliance with the four-eyes principle. However, it must be remembered that a member of the Enterprise Admins group is required whenever a new domain is to be created in the forest.


* Administrators must be informed and trained about the Active Directory structure and organizational processes as part of their administrative work to prevent non-conforming changes resulting in security vulnerabilities. For example, when creating a new user, it may be necessary to include it in corresponding security groups or even to create a new security group with a special name. If this is forgotten, users may be given incorrect permissions.


* For large domains, consideration should be given to supporting their management with appropriate tools. There are several commercial and freely available tools that facilitate Active Directory administration. It should be considered to use these. If such tools are used, it must be ensured that Active Directory management is done exclusively via these tools.




