#M 2.247 Planning the use of Exchange and Outlook
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

When scheduling Exchange and Outlook, the following aspects must be considered:

* Microsoft Exchange systems integrate with the Active Directory (AD) of a Microsoft Windows network infrastructure. Therefore, the Microsoft Exchange planning should be coordinated with the planning of the Active Directory (see M 2.229 planning of the Active Directory). When installing Microsoft Exchange, a schema extension of the Active Directory is performed. Thus, an Exchange installation affects the Active Directory permanently, so that the schema administrator of the schema master server must necessarily be involved. In addition, the people involved in the planning must have sufficient knowledge of the general structure of the Windows network, in particular the distribution of domain controllers and the accessibility of the so-called Global Catalog Server.
* The mailbox databases can be distributed to different Exchange servers. This allows information with different protection needs to be split into appropriately physically secured servers. With needs-based planning, this can simultaneously increase performance and reliability. This also applies to the use of further high availability functions.
* To help you plan the desired deployment scenario and distribute the Exchange servers, you must design a security policy that addresses the issues specific to Exchange. The considerations to be taken into account are summarized in M 2.455 Definition of a Security Policy for Groupware.
* For connecting an Exchange system to third-party communication systems, so-called connectors are available, which establish the connection between the various systems. The use of these connectors must be carefully planned in order to ensure a smooth communication process.
* The use of the Microsoft Outlook clients, their access to the Microsoft Exchange server and the protection of these accesses must be planned. It is also to be determined whether a connection as a MAPI client is desired or not. In the past, the MAPI interface has often been misused to propagate malicious programs (eg, viruses, worms, etc).
* The administration of the Microsoft Exchange system must be planned. The tasks range from the definition of roles and responsibilities including substitution rules in the institution to the definition of suitable administration roles. In addition, user groups with suitable rights must be set up in the corresponding domains.
* The user accounts and the used groups of the institution have to be planned.
* The use of an integrated virus protection program in the Microsoft Exchange system must be planned. It has to be decided which virus protection programs are used under which conditions on the server and client side.


The planning of the Exchange system may only be considered as complete once the so-called roll-out has been planned in detail. Among other things, the installation order of the individual Exchange servers and all Outlook clients is determined.

In order to implement the requirements of this measure concretely, there are explanations in the Microsoft Technet, for example for the version 2010

* planning and installing Microsoft Exchange 2010 under Planning and Deployment: Exchange 2010 Help and
* covered the planning and installation of Microsoft Outlook 2010 under Planning the deployment of Office 2010.




