#M 2.540 Careful selection of a cloud service provider
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Public authority / management, IT security officer, IT manager

After completion of the planning and design phase, the institution must select a suitable service provider for the provision of the defined cloud service.

The prerequisite for the careful selection of a suitable cloud service provider is the creation of the most detailed requirement profile possible. In addition to the definition of the cloud service to be used, the user can also find additional aspects that are relevant for the requirement profile for the cloud service provider in measure M 2.536 Service definition for cloud services by the user. Further security requirements are to be taken from the measures M 2.535 Creation of a security policy for the cloud usage and M 2.539 Creation of a security concept for the cloud usage. In addition, a requirements analysis should be carried out, which assigns a weighting or rating to the documented specifications.

From the totality of the determined requirements, a service catalog or specifications must be generated. On this basis, the institution can obtain individual offers or compare available (standard) offers of cloud service providers.



## Examples 
* Reputation of the provider. If information is available about it, an institution should also include the reputation of a cloud service provider in its decision. In addition, it has to be clarified whether experiences with a cloud service provider are already available within the own institution or whether experiences of other customers with similar requirements can be accessed. Eventually, information regarding the contractual service provision is available to other customers.
* Core business of the provider. It should be critically questioned whether the offering of cloud services can be seen as the core business of the service provider. In addition, it should be examined to what extent the cloud service provider already has a certain history, which also allows for the highest possible future security. Selecting a cloud service provider that has only recently emerged on the market and for which the provision of cloud services is not the core business may entail an increased risk potential. The risk that such a provider will cease providing services at short notice, that it will change significantly or disappear completely from the market, should be considered as greater than that of designated cloud service providers, who already offer their services over one l Maintain an extended period of time and continue to expand.
* Publicly available rankings or rating matrices. Also, publicly available rankings or rating matrices created by (independent) third parties may help select a suitable cloud service provider. It is important to ensure that the evaluation is as objective and neutral as possible. Market analysis is recommended here, which describes which cloud service provider is the most suitable for which customer situation. In this context, frequent assessments are made with regard to safety aspects, costs or service provision.
* Due diligence audit. If necessary and as far as possible, it is advisable to carry out a due diligence (due diligence). All relevant parameters related to the use of cloud services (for example, security aspects, technology used, interfaces, processes, etc.) should be checked. The goal of the review is to determine the service provider's ability to determine whether the cloud service provider meets the requirements for service delivery.
* Access by the service provider or third parties. Another selection criterion for a suitable cloud service provider may be its ability to access data or procedures of the institution. Under certain circumstances, the service provider grants such access rights to himself or a third party, which usually contradicts the requirements for the cloud service. In addition, it can be observed that service providers hire subcontractors who can subsequently obtain access to customer data.
* Installation of specific software solutions. In some cases, the use of the Cloud Service requires the prior installation of a specific software solution on the Institution's systems. Here it is advisable to question which potential security risks or requirements are associated with such an installation. There may be compatibility issues or additional costs that may not be apparent at first glance. In addition, there is a further dependency on the cloud service provider.
* Locations of the cloud service provider. The location of the cloud service provider (and the associated jurisdiction), the locations of the data centers operated or used by it, and the seats and locations of the subcontractors mandated to provide the service, may also be critical to an institution. The possible place of the service provision can be limited by compliance requirements. Depending on the location of the service provider, this may be subject to state intervention and inspection rights. Also conceivable here are existing test obligations to stored data, which the service provider must comply with, or even legally enforceable access rights of third parties.
* Subcontractor for service provision. Often, many subcontractors are involved in providing a cloud service. Inconsistencies between the contractors or unreliable subcontractors may adversely affect the performance of the cloud service provider. As a rule, the involvement of subcontractors is much more pronounced than, for example, outsourcing. When selecting a cloud service provider, therefore, the subcontractors should also be considered.
* Consideration of contractual arrangements. Already when choosing a cloud service provider its contractual rules should be taken into account. For example, if a cloud service provider insists on parts of the contract that are unacceptable to the serving institution, the cloud service provider should be eliminated as a potential contractor. Further information on contractual provisions is described in the M 2.541 Contract with the cloud service provider.




