#M 2.557 Conception of an information security training program
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, supervisor

So that a security concept can be established in an institution, the employees must accept it, observe it and implement it permanently. Key success factors here are tailored to the institution and visibly supported by management programs for awareness and training on information security.

The main aim of raising awareness about information security is to create awareness of all employees in their work environment, and to derive behaviors to prevent or limit harm (see M 2.312 design of an information security training and awareness program). In training, employees are provided with all necessary knowledge and skills in order to correctly perform the mentioned behavior. The term training covers all possible forms of planned and verified knowledge transfer, eg. B. Prescriptive training, online tutorials, briefing by responsible staff or awareness of relevant regulations and obligations.

Awareness and training are complementary and should therefore be developed in harmony with each other.

There should be a training program that involves every employee in the institution, is target-oriented and also considers the employee's career path (eg change of function, department or location). The training program must be supported by the management to ensure that it is of particular importance and that the necessary resources are available for planning, implementation and maintenance (see M 3.96 Awareness-raising and training management) ,

The following describes the important steps needed to design an information security training program.

1. Definition of training objectives

The training program is intended to anchor information security objectives and the resulting measures among all employees of the institution. Therefore, the training goals must be derived from the information security goals.

Typical goals of such training measures can be:

* Gaining attention and interest in information security,
* Provide basic information security information,
* special information security impart knowledge that is required for specialist tasks of the employees,
* Communicate practical knowledge so that employees react correctly in safety-critical situations and
* Achieve sustainable behavioral change so that employees recognize and accept that information security policies and measures are necessary and integrate them into their day-to-day work.


In addition, success criteria for the training programs should be defined in order to assess their impact.

2. Analysis of target groups

Employees with similar information security responsibilities and responsibilities should be identified through an audience analysis to make training as appropriate, effective, and ready to use as possible. For more detailed recommendations on target group analysis see measure M 3.93 Analysis of target groups for awareness raising and training programs.

3. Definition of training needs for target groups

For target-oriented training content, the training needs per target group must be analyzed in advance. It is to be determined who should have which knowledge in which situation. In order to evaluate the current state of knowledge of target groups, questionnaires for self-assessment can be used. The following areas should definitely be considered:

* Basic knowledge for all employees,
* Management level to perform the role model function for information security,
* Introduction of new employees,
* Special knowledge for specific groups B.Administrators and Teleworkers,
* Additional knowledge of switching between the target groups.


4. Derivation of training content

All employees should know the internal information security policies, concepts and procedures that are relevant to their workplace and know where to find them. It is important that the information security documentation is simple, manageable and generally understandable.

* The further content of the training measures is described in measure M 3.45 Planning of training contents for information security.
* Contents on the fundamentals of information security are specified in the measures M 3.26 Training of the personnel in the safe handling of IT and M 3.5 training on security measures.
* For content on special topics, measures M 3.45 Planning of information security training content and M 3.49 Training on IT basic protection training can be used. If external organizers are used for the training measures, these can also be used as a checklist to check whether pre-assembled seminars offer the required content.


Practical exercises on how to meet certain safety requirements in everyday working life are also part of imparting skills. The goal is that they become more and more self-evident rather than constantly felt as an unpleasant additional expense.

Information security training should be closely aligned with the institution's other training activities. Wherever possible, information security topics should be integrated into existing training courses to encourage employees to take the subject for granted. If necessary, the existing lecturers must be additionally qualified for this. Furthermore, information security aspects must be allowed sufficient time within the training.

5. Development of training modules

The aim of this step is to best assemble the training content, including appropriate media and methodology. For this purpose, appropriate modules must be defined based on the developed training contents. It is also necessary to define how the modules will be realized (see also M 3.48 Selection of trainers or external training providers), for example by:

* Trainings conducted by own staff,
* training courses provided by external teachers, either specific to the institution (usually within the institution) or organized as part of the offering of seminar providers (possibly within the institution),
* Embedding in existing training courses or
* the creation of training materials for independent learning.


Possible media and methods are:

* classical presentation training,
* Information book, blog or news about information security on the intranet,
* Employee newsletter,
* Journals with security-related topics,
* internal information events,
* external seminars, fairs and conferences,
* Videos highlighting specific information security issues
* E-Learning Programs, Computer Based Training, Infotainment, Webinars and
* Information security planning games (see M 3.47 Conducting information security planning games).


All existing training programs and materials in the institution should be examined to see if they have proven to be successful and can be taken as a role model and if security issues can be integrated into other programs.

When choosing e-learning programs, it should also be kept in mind that they will not adversely affect information security in the IT environment used. If e-learning offers are to be presented not only on the intranet but also over the Internet, for example, active content (Java, Javascript, ActiveX, etc.) is not required. In principle, e-learning applications, like any other application, should be tested prior to their deployment and released only if there are no security concerns (see B 5.25 Common Applications).

6. Definition of training plans

Training schedules should be defined for the various target groups, as well as cycles or defined times within the employee's career in which certain modules should be traversed. The training modules should be supplemented by appropriate time and resource planning and established as an event. This enables the responsible executives to plan information security training for their employees.

7. Learning success control

In training for information security, it must be ensured that the planned training goals of the participants are also achieved. Otherwise corrective measures should be taken.

A learning success check should take place both during the training after important training sessions (eg through joint summarization and questions from the lecturers) and at the end of the training and again after a few weeks (see also M 3.94 Measurement and evaluation of learning success ).

The institution should have an up-to-date and complete overview of the safety and security of its employees, for example through training certificates or personal certificates.

8. Study assurance and updating

Once acquired knowledge should be refreshed continuously. How quickly and intensively this has to happen depends on the dynamics of the topic and the degree of practical implementation of the acquired knowledge. Thus new techniques, but also new threats, vulnerabilities and possible defensive measures are needed to constantly refresh and expand information security knowledge. The training program must take this fact into account through regular refresher and supplement events for employees. Furthermore, it is important to regularly update the entire program and, if necessary, to adapt it to new circumstances (see also M 2.198 Raising the awareness of information security staff and M 3.95 learning assurance).



