#M 2.45 Regulation of the data medium exchange
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, IT Leader, Organization Leader

Responsible for implementation: user, post office

If data carriers are to be exchanged between two or more communication partners, a number of recommendations must be observed for the proper exchange.

A suitable shipping method must be specified. In particular, the type of data carriers and the protection requirements of the information must be taken into account.

Addressing must be unambiguous to avoid incorrect delivery. In addition to the name of the recipient, the organizational unit and the exact name of the agency or company should be indicated. Within an institution, directories of the most common addresses should be maintained so that the most up-to-date and correct addresses of the recipients are used.

The address of the sender must also be clearly and completely stated. For this purpose, a specification should be drawn up within the institution which uniformly regulates the scope and structure of the sender information.

Digital data carriers should (optionally) be accompanied by a data carrier accompanying leaflet containing the following information:

* Sender,
* recipient,
* Type and quantity of data carriers,
* Serial number (if available),
* Identifier for the contents of the volume,
* Date of shipment, if applicable date until when the data carrier must have reached the recipient by the time
* Note that volumes are scanned for viruses,
* Parameters needed to read the information, eg. B. belt speed.


However, it should not be noted

* which password was given for the possibly protected information,
* which keys were used to encrypt the information
* what content the disk has.


The dispatch of the data carrier can be documented (optional). For personal or other sensitive data, the shipping must be documented.

The correct reception should be checked. For programs with highly confidential or on-time content, the recipients should be informed of the despatch and the chosen route of transport. If the need for protection is high, it is advisable to ask the recipient for a confirmation of receipt.

In each case responsible for the dispatch and for the receipt must be named. If there are indications of manipulation or loss, safety management must be informed immediately.



