#M 2.13 Proper disposal of valuable equipment
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of building services, employees

Equipment or material (eg printer paper, floppy disks, streamertapes, magnetic tapes, hard disks, CD-ROMs, DVDs, USB sticks, flash memories or cards, but also special toner cartridges, carbon paper or carbon ribbons) at some point no longer needed or must be eliminated due to defects. If they contain valuable data, they must be disposed of in such a way that no conclusions can be drawn about previously stored data. For functional volumes, the data should be physically deleted. Non-functioning or only once recordable data carriers such as files or CD-ROMs and DVDs must be mechanically destroyed (see B .1.15 Deleting and destroying data).

The nature of the disposal of sensitive materials should be regulated in a specific safety policy. In the institution, the necessary disposal facilities such as shredders must be available.

If protective material is collected before disposal, the collection must be kept under lock and protected against unauthorized access.

Insofar as no environmentally sound and safe disposal can be carried out in the company or in the authorities, companies entrusted with this must be obliged to comply with the necessary safety measures. A model contract can be found under the IT Baseline Protection tools on the BSI websites. It should be checked regularly whether the disposal process is reliable.



