#M 2.14 key management
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: Head of Domestic Engineering

For all keys of the building (of floors, corridors and rooms) a closing plan has to be finished. The production, storage, administration and issuing of keys is to be regulated centrally. Spare keys are to be kept and stored securely. The same applies to all means of identification such as magnetic stripe or chip cards. Please note:

* If a locking system is available, separate locking groups must be set up for areas requiring protection. Depending on the requirements, individual rooms are to be removed from the lock group and fitted with a single lock.
* Unissued keys and the reserve keys are to be protected against unauthorized access.
* The keys are only issued in justified and comprehensible cases to authorized persons against receipt and must be documented. Even in the case of substitution, a key may not simply be passed on, but must be made via the key issue. Only through this detour can a complete documentation be provided as proof of the whereabouts of the key.
* Precautions are to be taken on how to react in the event of loss of individual keys (notification, replacement, reimbursement of costs, possibly recourse to recourse due to lack of due diligence), replacement of the lock, exchange of lock groups etc.).
* In the case of changes in the responsibilities of employees, their closing authorizations must be checked and keys no longer required must be collected.
* When leaving employees, all keys must be collected (key management in the slip of the stations to be done before departure).
* Locks and keys for areas requiring special protection (for which only very few keys should be issued) can be exchanged, if required, even without prior notification, in case of suspicion, in order to protect illegally copied keys To take function.




