#M 2.409 Planning partitioning and replication in the directory service
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

A scalable directory service provides the ability to partition parts of the directory database into partitions and distribute them to different directory service servers. This shortens the mean access times, since search queries may only extend to a specific partition and not to the entire directory tree. In addition, it increases the reliability, since in a server failure only the partition located there and not the entire directory database is affected. Furthermore, partitioning allows the data to be distributed to appropriately secured servers in accordance with a previously made classification.

When planning partitioning, the rules for partitions defined by the directory service must be considered. Partitions can in turn contain subpartitions, which must also be formed according to the defined rules.

In addition to the directory tree partitioning mechanism, directory services provide the ability to replicate parts of the directory tree to other directory service servers. In directory services terminology, the replicated sections are referred to as replicas or replicas. In planning the replication, in particular, an analysis of the expected network traffic is to be made in order to determine here the requirements for the bandwidth of the communication links or to align the topology of the replicas with given network parameters.

When planning the partitions, the following points should be noted:

* Consideration of protection needs: The information held in the directory should be classified according to its protection needs. This classification should be used to distribute the objects to appropriately protected servers. Care must be taken to ensure that objects with valuable information, such as cryptographic keys, are stored on a sufficiently secure server.
* Required availability of the directory service: To improve the load distribution, a sufficient number of replicas of the directory data must be created on directory service servers.
* Distribution of the administration tasks: In order to separate the roles of the administration tasks with the separation of the data management, the administration tasks should be distributed to individual partitions.
* Directory Service Partitioning Rules: The directory service partitioning rules must be specified and adhered to. The essential rules are: Each partition starts hierarchically with a single container object. The partition must be a contiguous subtree of the directory service tree. Different partitions must not overlap. The name of the partition must be the Fully Qualified Distinguished Name (FQDN) of the root object of the partition.


When planning the replications, the following points should be considered:

* From the requirements for availability and reliability of the directory service, the specifications for the number of replications to be created must be derived.
* The required system performance leads to the planning of the load distribution.
* It must be decided whether the definition of filters for replication can provide a safety benefit. This security gain is mainly due to the possibility of separate data storage according to a previously made classification of the data. It can thus be realized the basic principle that each directory service server only holds the data which it requires (or which the accessing users or applications need). Careless configuration of a replication can reduce system performance become. If requested data is not available or not visible on a directory service server because it is hidden by corresponding filter rules, it will continue to search in the background (if permitted). An inadequate configuration of the filter rules can thus adversely affect the performance of the system.


The exact contexts of the servers that hold partitions or replications are considered. If the structure is too shallow, a high amount of internal replication is required. In addition, individual, currently unavailable servers lead to corresponding status messages for all other directory service servers involved in this replication.



