#M 2.417 Planning of technical VPN realization
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

In addition to the organizational and staffing plans that are discussed in M 2.416 VPN Deployment Planning, the introduction of a VPN also requires decisions on a number of technical aspects. In any case, these decisions must be made prior to procurement and form the basis for the later implementation of the VPP. In the technical planning all existing framework conditions from the current technical situation are to be considered, in order to avoid incompatibilities.

In the following, the most important questions that need to be answered in the context of the technical concept are shown. Depending on the specific situation, there is naturally an additional need for regulation specially tailored to the respective circumstances.

* It should be described how the VPN is technically realized by hardware and software components. The components are defined only by their function. As part of a downstream analysis of existing system components and new components that can be procured on the market, the elements of the concept can be assigned to actual devices and software products (see M 2.419 Suitable Selection of VPN Products).
* All potential VPN endpoints that allow dial-in to theLAN and the access protocols used for them should be described.
* As part of the security concept, all VPN access points to the local network are to be recorded and it must be described how these access points are connected to the LAN (see also module B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall)). Based on the current network structure, the security concept must analyze which subnetworks can be reached when using a VPN access. It should be considered to form dedicated access networks (access networks) from which only controlled (via router, packet filter or internal firewall) can be accessed in the productive network. The formation of access networks requires the acquisition and maintenance of additional hardware and software (see also M 5.77 Formation of subnetworks).
* All services and protocols permitted via the VPN access as well as the resources accessible through them shall be documented. The selection depends on which applications are to be used. For time-critical traffic, Quality of Service (QoS), Multi Protocol Label Switching (MPLS) or dedicated lines may be required.


* It is necessary to establish appropriate encryption procedures to protect the data. Relevant here are among others: TunnelingThe communication can be encrypted at low protocol level (so-called tunneling, see M 5.76 Use of suitable tunnel protocols for VPN communication). For this a suitable procedure must be selected. Traditional VPNs provide such methods by default but in varying numbers and expressions. TLS / SSL Encryption For encryption, TLS / SSL can also be used when encrypting at low protocol level for certain reasons no use can be made. This is especially true for web server or e-mail server access through browsers that support standard TLS / SSL secured communication. This should also include M 5.66 Client-side use of SSL / TLS. Key-peer encryption In addition to software security, the use of encrypting network switches (routers, modems) may also be considered. These are particularly useful for stationary use and for the connection of several computers, since the encryption takes place transparently and the end systems are not burdened. It should be noted, however, that the network interface elements must be carefully configured and maintained. Even with direct dial-in procedures, for example via analogue telephone networks or ISDN, encryption is required to protect the data.
* In M 3.65 Introducing Basic VPN Concepts Introducing the different types of VPNs. Based on the requirements, it must be decided which type of VPN is to be realized.
* It must be decided whether the connection must be realized via dedicated carrier lines. This decision usually has a significant impact on costs.
* In order to ensure stable operation and continuous improvement, suitable monitoring systems should be planned. The insights gained from the monitoring systems contribute significantly to the fine tuning of the VPN operation (see M 4.321 Secure Operation of a VPN).


The VPP planning must be submitted to management for decision.



