#M 2.447 Secure use of virtual IT systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

When commissioning virtual IT systems, some special features have to be taken into account that go beyond the measures required for physical IT systems (for example, M 2.318 Secure installation of an IT system). This is due to the dynamism and flexibility of virtual IT systems, as well as the possibility of multiple virtual IT systems processing different data running side-by-side on a virtualization server.

At first, virtual IT systems, just like physical computers, are to be commissioned according to their type and purpose (application server or client, but also, for example, switches). For this reason, the measures that are relevant and established for physical systems during installation and later operation must also be implemented for virtual IT systems. In addition, it must be taken into account that for applications, if they are moved from stand-alone physical IT systems to virtual IT systems, additional dangers can arise. For example, there may be bottlenecks in processing speed or storage capacity. Therefore, it may be necessary to customize existing installation documentation for a virtual IT system to be commissioned.

The commissioning of virtual IT systems must therefore be carefully prepared (see also M 2.444 Application Planning for Virtual IT Systems). In particular, the following points should be considered before the immediate commissioning:

* It must be ensured that only the responsible administrators can configure the virtualization software with regard to the virtual IT systems as well as set up or delete virtual IT systems.
* The access rights to the virtual IT systems must be set up according to the requirements. The basic rule here too is that only the actually required accessibility should be allowed. This applies not only to the management software of the virtualization server, but in particular also to the data with which the virtual IT system is represented on the virtualization server.
* It must be ensured that the network connections required for the virtual IT systems are available in the virtual infrastructure.
* The impact of virtualization (for example, on system monitoring or the use of virtual hardware resources) that arises for the administrators of the virtual IT system itself and the applications running on it, must be determined and adhered to.
* Depending on the application, the individual virtual IT systems on a physical computer must be more or less isolated and encapsulated (see also M 3.72 Basic concepts of virtualization technology and M 3.70 Introduction to virtualization). This applies in particular if virtual IT systems with different protection requirements are to be operated on a virtualization server.
* Deploying multiple virtual IT systems on one physical computer can have a significant impact on the availability, throughput, and response times of running applications. It must be checked whether the requirements for the availability and the throughput of the applications can be met with the virtualization solution used. This can be done by testing whether the virtual IT system achieves acceptable response times and processing speeds before it is transferred to active mode.
* Furthermore, the performance characteristics of virtual servers should be monitored, so that congestion can be quickly adjusted to the configuration. The monitoring can take place at the level of the virtual IT systems or at the level of the respective virtualization server. It should be noted that performance values ??that are determined by the virtual IT systems themselves do not always correspond to the reality. For example, some virtualization products allocate some of the total amount of processor time to a virtual IT system. If the virtual system now reports a utilization of its (virtual) processor, this does not always correspond to the actual utilization of the physical processor, but only to a utilization of the allocated processor time.




