#M 2.276 How a router works
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In large networks can hardly be dispensed with the use of routers. Routers are used both in local networks and in long-distance networks (see also module B 4.4 VPN). Without the use of routers, the Internet would not work.

Routers can simultaneously support different protocols (eg IP, IPX) and topologies (eg Ethernet, Token Ring, FDDI, ATM, Frame Relay, ISDN). As a result, routers are able to seamlessly connect local networks to wide area networks. Last but not least, this feature of routers has helped to make the internet so fast in the past.

A router basically performs two tasks. On the one hand, a suitable connection between the source system or source network and the destination system or destination network is determined and, on the other hand, data packets are transported along this connection. If the target system (destination network) is connected directly to the router - d. h. Router and target system are in the same subnet - the data packet sent by the source system is sent directly to the target system.



If the target system (target network) is not directly connected to the router, the router sends the data packet to a neighboring router that is connected closer to the target system (target network), the so-called next hop. The last router in this connection chain is always connected directly to the destination network and sends the data packet to the destination system.



The task of a router is to either transfer incoming data packets directly to the addressed receiver or forward them to the next network. In which network the data packet is forwarded, if it can not be delivered directly, decides the so-called routing metric. The metric is a measure of the quality of the connection between the sender or router and the destination of the packet. With their help, the router decides to which Next Hop it passes on the packet. Routing metrics do not only refer to the length of the path between transmitter and receiver, but may also include other features, such as line quality, bandwidth, or utilization, in the decision , Which criteria are used depends on the routing protocol used.

The routing information is managed in so-called routing tables. Routing tables contain information about which neighboring routers can serve as next hop for specific target networks. Routers make the decision on which Next Hop a received data packet is passed on, exclusively on the basis of these routing tables. That is why it is especially important to protect these tables from manipulation. There are a number of attacks known that exploit the manipulability of routing tables. The following figure shows an example of the contents of a routing table.

Table: Exemplary extract from a routing table

In this example, the router would forward a packet with the destination address 210.23.125.98 to the next hop 210.23.122.4. The so-called hop count indicates how many intermediate stations the package still has to pass in order to reach its destination via the relevant next hop. If several neighboring routers are available as Next Hops for a specific destination, the hop count can be used as a routing metric to determine the most favorable next hop. The routing protocol RIP also uses the hop count as a routing metric.



## Examples 
* Are dynamic routing only using routing protocols that support encrypted authentication when exchanging routing tables?
* Has the use of dynamic pre-commissioning routing been assessed from a safety perspective?
* Is Dynamic Routing Unlikely to be Used in Highly Demanded Networks?
* Is the residual risk of the encrypted transmission up to the first network coupling element analyzed and evaluated when using VPN?




