#M 2.351 Planning of storage solutions
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The basic decision as to which type of storage solution is appropriate for the institution must be made by a requirement analysis. First of all, it has to be determined which applications the storage solution should support in the future and which existing hardware should be supported or replaced by a new storage solution.

Significant parameters are the requirements for availability, performance and capacity. In the case of normal availability requirements, it should also be checked which complexity is acceptable to the institution. The introduction of SAN solutions means that a new base technology will be introduced. Thus, a corresponding effort for planning and introduction of this technique is to be calculated. The planned use of storage solutions in virtualized server environments, for example, has to take into account additional aspects such as the guarantee of a unambiguous WWN or network address assignment, the implementation of which generates additional effort.

NAS solutions are designed to be easy to integrate with established IT environments and file-based access. It's a good idea to consolidate files and file-centric applications into more centralized, yet easy-to-manage storage solutions.

If storage space on servers is to be replaced by central storage in the short term, but higher availability requirements are to be expected in the long term, the use of storage solutions that are a hybrid of SAN and NAS can also be considered. So-called hybrid storage solutions can be operated in the first stage as (very high-quality) NAS solutions. By upgrading internal components, they can be upgraded to SAN solutions for additional servers and, if required, to redundant storage networks.

If the protection needs assessment for any of these considered systems shows, immediately or in the foreseeable future, that there is high or even very high protection requirements in terms of availability, so that redundant data storage in different locations is required, then SAN technology should be used. In this case, care should be taken to ensure that the storage solution supports SAN protocols. With this technology, completely redundant and highly available storage solutions can be built.

The decision to use a particular storage solution, such as NAS or SAN, should be appropriately documented. Within the institution, it is therefore advisable to draw up a professional rough concept already in the course of the planning and conception phase of a storage solution. This should consider all the aspects that are the subject of this action, including, but not limited to, storage requirements, choice of hardware and suppliers, infrastructure planning, etc. In addition, there is a security policy for the use of Create storage solutions.

It is also part of the planning to regulate how the storage solution to be built can be integrated into the existing operating processes. In this way it is already clear at an early stage how existing processes have to be adapted and changed. Delays in the implementation and operation phase can thus be avoided or at least reduced.

Unless already done at a higher level, the planning activities of a storage solution should also specify how to handle the versioning of the software used. This avoids later violations of existing compatibility matrices and offers the institution the opportunity to quickly identify whether there is a need for action when weaknesses or critical errors become known.



## Examples 
* the current and projected demand for storage space defined by applications (capacity requirements),
* the requirements of the applications on the speed of the memory accesses (performance requirements),
* the requirements for the reliability for the applications (availability requirements),
* the requirements for the confidentiality and integrity of the data to be processed as a basis for the decision for the possible use of hardware-related encryption mechanisms (security requirements)
* Possibility to use secure operating systems. Such specialized operating systems can reduce the complexity of security configurations and also help reduce manual overhead and the likelihood of errors.




