#M 2.420 Selection of a trusted VPN service provider
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer

The independent operation of a VPN often requires a high level of expertise from the responsible administrator. In addition to VPN-specific settings, cryptographic aspects must also be taken into account and the connection to public networks must be optimized. If all settings are selected as best as possible, the confidentiality and integrity of the data can be protected, but the availability can not be influenced. Drops in the public network to which the VPN gateway is connected may still interrupt the flow of data between the sites to be connected.

An alternative to these independently administered Secure VPNs are Trusted VPNs. In a trusted VPN, an external service provider is commissioned with the secure transmission of the information. By contractual agreements, the service provider may be required to protect the information transmitted with respect to confidentiality, integrity and availability.

Instead of using public networks, such as the Internet, the information in Trusted VPNs is usually transmitted via dedicated lines of the provider (carrier network). Since the carrier network is under the control of the service provider, it can guarantee the protection of the information to a certain extent.

From the customer's point of view, the service provider provides devices that are connected to the customer's LANs to be connected. Since the data is often not encrypted by the service provider and all the support is provided by the external service provider, trusted VPNs should only be used if the data is of low security and without the customer's additional security mechanisms. Even in this case, an additional encryption of the data on the customer side is highly recommended. In the case of higher protection requirements, encryption must be carried out before the data is transmitted.

A major disadvantage of trusted VPNs is the often strong dependence on the service provider. Switching to another service provider is often associated with a very high outlay.

A big advantage of trusted VPNs is that the respective service providers are often present across national borders. Especially in an international environment, it is only possible for an institution to provide qualified personnel and processes for the operation of its own VPN at all locations.

When choosing a trusted VPN service provider and the subsequent contract negotiations, the aspects described in M .2.252 Choosing a suitable outsourcing service provider and M .2.253 contract design with the outsourcing service provider should be taken into account. For the operation of a Trusted VPN, the following points must also be taken into account:

* Service Level Agreement Due to increased costs, it is not economical to choose the services of a service provider with the highest possible quality. Rather, it must be decided in advance what exactly with what quality is needed. This must be negotiated and documented by means of Service Level Agreements (SLAs). SLAs contain the measurable description of a service to be provided, including the quality to be achieved and the metrics to be applied. In addition, the service provider must determine the consequences of a breach of agreed SLAs and how appropriate reporting is performed.
* Global connectivity is often used by VPNs not only to connect sites, but also to integrate mobile workers into the LAN. If the connection of mobile employees is to be made via a trusted VPN, the service provider must offer dial-in points, to which the employees can establish a connection via one of the following solutions: Data connections via public networks: This is where a data connection   is established Built on a public network, such as the Internet. Since the transmission quality of data connections via public networks can not be influenced, malfunctions may occur. For example, terminal server applications often require high bandwidth, which can not be made widely available. Dial-up connections With dial-up connections, mobile workers can connect directly to the telephone directly over a telephone connection, such as over cellular networks Access the service provider's access point. Especially with mobile employees, who are often abroad, this can lead to problems if a telephone connection has to be established over long distances. Therefore, when selecting this solution, care should be taken that the service provider offers different dial-in points.
* Area coverageVPNs are often used to connect multiple sites. In contrast to mobile employees, the connections of the various properties usually have a larger bandwidth, so that more extensive information can be transmitted. Instead of using dial-up connections via third-party providers, the properties are usually connected to the Trusted VPN with leased lines. The connection of foreign locations is especially important for companies operating worldwide. It must therefore be clarified whether the provider can and should provide suitable connections.
* Tariff structuresIn addition to the technical requirements, the financial conditions are also important. In addition to cost models for the bandwidth provided, additional support services or a guarantee, for example, for high availability, can often be purchased.
* Monitoring (Reports) As a rule, the service providers guarantee the customer a certain quality of availability, confidentiality and integrity. Efficient monitoring is the basis for monitoring the requirements specified in the SLAs. The customer must have the opportunity to check the specified requirements accordingly.
* Trouble shootingThe customer must know who to contact in case of failure. Examples of failures can be transmission problems in the network of the service provider and defective gateways, which form the connection between the LAN and the network of the service provider.


All agreed services must be recorded as accurately and unambiguously as possible in writing. The security of the Trusted VPN must be regularly monitored so that it remains a trusted network. The client must have the necessary authorizations. Results of investigations of independent third parties should be communicated to the contractor. All institutions that are required to carry out tests at the client's premises (eg supervisory authorities) must also have the corresponding control facilities (eg access rights, data access) provided by the VPN service provider become.



