#M 2.170 Requirements for a system management system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

A system management system is used to support the administrators of a local network. A system management system must therefore fulfill certain conditions in order to be able to support the administrators appropriately. However, the requirements for such a system depend significantly on the planned deployment (see M .2.169 Developing a system management strategy) and on the chosen architecture of the system management system (see M 2.171 Appropriate selection of a system management product).

A system management system should provide the following functions:

* User Management This includes adding, modifying and deleting user and group accounts.
* Policy management Access rights should be managed both for access to and from the local network and for access to the Internet.
* Software management Adding, deleting and updating software components should be possible with the system management system. In addition, the automatic detection of the installed software may be important, especially for the implementation phase. Managing software licenses is desirable.
* Detect, use, and manage system configuration file.
* Managing application dataIt must be possible to manage files of a database system or configuration files of an application. For example, distributing a new version of a database or distributing new configuration files is possible.
* Monitoring system componentsThis can also be useful for external components that are not subject to their own administration, for example for the router of the Internet Service Provider (ISP) via which the Internet connection is implemented.
* Application ManagementManaging software at the application level should be possible, for example: B. managing HTTP access rights to the data of a WWW server (realms).


Ideally, such a system allows the delegation of administrative tasks, so that z. B. a system administrator can grant a workgroup system administrator the right to install software on the workgroup computers. This mechanism is particularly necessary in medium and large networks.

Network and system administration is usually performed by the same administrative units in a company or agency. It is therefore advisable to examine to what extent an existing network management system can be integrated into a system management system to be procured.

In addition to these predominantly functional requirements, there are also technical requirements within the framework of the criteria that are relevant for the selection of a system management software (see M 2.171 Appropriate selection of a system management product). Particularly to be highlighted here are the following:

* The management system must be able to support the operating systems of all the computers used for management and all those managed (operating system-specific components of the management system, graphical user interface).
* If a local database system already exists, the management system should have the possibility to store its management information in the existing database system.
* The management system should be extensible. On the one hand, this concerns the components of the management system (eg module concept with the option of being able to buy and integrate modules at any time), but also the function of the management system (eg programming API to connect own components) to be able to).


In general, the criteria for categorizing requirements presented in M .2.171 Appropriate Selection of a System Management Product can be used in the context of the present measure. For selected categories, the requirements result from the specification of a specification within the respective value range.



