#M 2.123 Selection of a groupware or mail provider
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

Before selecting a groupware or mail provider, those responsible should inform themselves about the regulations that apply to the provider, for example, if and how long procedures and communication data are archived, whether there are upper limits for the volume of e-mails received or sent indicates whether emails are filtered, and if so, by what rules.

Institutions use the services of groupware or mail providers if they want to do without the construction and maintenance of their own systems or if they want to make their own systems more flexible. In addition to the complete outsourcing of groupware services, there is also the possibility to use individual services of groupware providers, which are offered on the Internet, to facilitate the work in teams or on the way, such as web mail services and Group schedules. Many employees also use such services privately. Therefore, it must be clear to all employees that they are only allowed to use externally groupware services released by their institution. In general, all employees must understand what they need to be aware of when using external groupware services.

The institution should clarify in advance which security mechanisms are implemented at the groupware or mail provider and whether it complies with the internal security requirements. The security officers should make sure that the server or server of the groupware or mail provider are operated securely, ie that the requirements described in M .5.56 Secure operation of a mail server are met.

The provider stores data about the users for billing purposes (name, address, user ID, bank details) as well as connection data and for a shorter or longer period depending on the provider also the transmitted content.

Users should ask their groupware or mail provider what data is being stored for how long. When selecting providers, it should be taken into account that German operators are subject to the relevant data protection regulations for the processing of these data.

In the case of e-mail, users can prevent the provider from reading the contents of the transmitted information by using encryption. For other groupware services such as address books or calendars this is usually not possible, so users should inform themselves before using such services, as in this case the data is shielded from unauthorized access.

Large providers with their own large network have the advantage that e-mails or other information that is exchanged only within this network, is safer from tampering than with forwarding over the Internet.

Providers who are headquartered overseas will often also route all e-mails and other information about that country. This point should be taken into account when thinking about how many gateways the information will be redistributed, so who can read it, for example.



