#M 2.305 Suitable selection of smartphones, tablets or PDAs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Procurement, IT Manager

Smartphones, tablets or PDAs are available in different variants and device classes. These differ not only in their dimensions and scope of performance, but also in safety mechanisms and ease of use. In addition, they make different demands on hardware and software components in the operating environment.

Due to the variety of models with different operating systems, compatibility issues with other hardware and software are likely.

Once it has been decided to use smartphones, tablets or PDAs within an institution, a requirement analysis should first be carried out. The aim of the requirements analysis is to determine all possible application scenarios in the specific case and to derive requirements for the required hardware and software components and to document them in a list.

On the basis of this list of requirements then the products available on the market are to be evaluated and the equipment to be procured selected. If private smartphones, tablets or PDAs are used by an institution in an institution, only those private devices that fulfill these requirements may be allowed. Practice shows that due to various application requirements, it may be sensible to purchase different device types. The variety of devices should be limited to simplify the support.

In addition, it must be ensured that the mobile terminals and the software used can be centrally and effectively managed (see M 4.230 Central administration of smartphones, tablets and PDAs). Also, the necessary server infrastructure should require as little administrative effort as possible.

The following list gives a rough overview of possible general evaluation criteria, but does not claim to be complete and can be extended to include further general requirements.



## Examples 
* Can the product be easily maintained?
* Does the manufacturer offer regular software updates?
* Can maintenance contracts be concluded for the product?




