#M 2.169 Develop a system management strategy
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The components located in a network must be managed regularly by an administrator. The tasks to be done range from setting up new users to installing new software whose distributed nature requires the installation of sub-software on each individual computer (workflow system, document management system, etc.). In large organizations, setting up a new user who should be able to log on to all computers shared with him means a lot of administrative work, since in stand-alone operation each of these computers has to be configured accordingly. Modern network-capable operating systems (eg Unix, Windows NT, Novell) are therefore equipped with mechanisms that are intended to reduce the administrative effort (eg centralized user administration). However, if the management of all hardware and software components of a local network at all levels (technical and organizational) in a uniform manner, must be on the one hand technical tools in the form of management systems are used, their successful use on the other hand but also from one to management strategy. The requirements and rules of the management strategy are then implemented by the system administration with the help of the management software. A management strategy must be individually tailored to the needs of the respective companies or authorities. For this the following steps have to be carried out:



## Examples 
* Which computers or hardware should be included in the management system?
* Which software should be included?
* Which users or user groups are involved?




