#M 2.429 Success measurement of change requirements
Responsible for initiation: Change Manager, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Change Manager

Management processes such as patch and change management must be constantly improved, optimized and adapted to the changing conditions in the institution. The way in which the present measure is implemented in the institution also demonstrates the maturity of the patch and change management process.

The tests carried out in advance of hardware, software or configuration changes serve primarily to check whether the changes in the expected field of application function in principle. Since changes are usually intended to remedy a malfunction, it is necessary for the applicants to subsequently obtain an evaluation of the success of the change.

For this it is absolutely necessary to carry out so-called post-tests. As a prerequisite for this, reference systems must be selected as quality assurance systems. In addition, it must be ensured that the follow-up tests are carried out by those business users who know the business processes of the institution and are able to assess any errors that may exist.

If the change was necessary from a security point of view, the backtesting must be initiated by the change manager and carried out by specialist users.

The results of the post-tests and evaluations are documented as part of the patching and modification process. The Change Manager, the Change Advisory Board and the Security Management will be provided with data to improve the process.



