#M 2.1 Definition of responsibilities and regulations
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, Head of Organization

For all essential tasks and business processes in an institution, the responsibilities should be comprehensible. The tasks should be tailored so that there is no overlap between similar tasks, but also no gaps in responsibilities. This should be a matter of course for all areas, but it is indispensable for all security-related tasks.

The security-related tasks of all internal and external employees and service providers must be clearly defined. They must be aligned with the security objectives of the institution. The areas that should be regulated include, for example:

* Explicit allocation of responsibilities and authorizations to roles or organizational units in all security-related tasks (ensuring that all roles are assigned to specific persons),
* Appropriate handling of business-critical information so that its confidentiality, integrity and availability are adequately protected,
* Confidentiality agreements
* Involvement of the safety officer in assignments and projects concerning business critical information
* Briefings on the appropriate handling of business-critical information, for example, in contact with customers or while traveling,
* Definition of rules of conduct and information requirements for safety-related actions and security incidents,
* Classification of information according to their protection needs.


Information security regulations should be combined with those for data protection and security in a way that makes it easier for employees to adapt and better manage them. It is also important that all regulations taken together are consistent.

Extensive information security regulations must be set as binding as an aspect of information processing.

It is best to have arrangements among other things about the topics

* Data backup,
* Data archiving,
* Datentrgertransport,
* Datenbertragung,
* Data destruction,
* Documentation of IT procedures, software, IT configuration,
* Access, access and access permissions,
* Maintenance and repair work,
* Data protection,
* Protection against malware,
* revision,
* Emergency preparedness and
* How to violate security policies


hold true. Information on this can be found in the description of the relevant IT-Grundschutz modules.

The regulations that have come into force are to be communicated to the affected employees in an appropriate manner (see M 3.2 Employees' obligation to comply with applicable laws, regulations and regulations). It is recommended to document the announcement. In addition, all regulations in the current form must be kept in one place and made accessible to legitimate interests.

The provisions made must be regularly updated in order to avoid and, if necessary, resolve any misunderstandings, unresolved responsibilities and contradictions. All regulations should therefore include a creation date or a version number.



