#M 2.296 Basic Considerations for z / OS Transaction Monitoring
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The use of transaction monitors must be planned in detail and secured by suitable mechanisms. To help you in this action, some recommendations are described at a glance, which have proven to be effective from the point of view of information security in the operation of transaction monitors. Depending on the application scenario, further specific planning and security mechanisms are usually required, which can not be presented here. In particular, this section does not consider the database part of IMS.

Transaction monitors are used on mainframe systems for online operations. They allow the users to access the desired data via downstream database systems in interactive mode. It is one of the core tasks of the transaction monitor to ensure that the following conditions are met:

* A transaction must always be completed. If this is not feasible, the system must be reset to the previous state (roll-back).
* The system should be in a consistent state before and after the transaction, otherwise the system must be reset.
* Each user should only have access to his data and should be isolated from all other data.
* After completing the transaction, it must be ensured that the changed state is saved and later available in the same form. In case of a system failure, the unsaved transactions must be automatically redone if necessary.


These conditions apply both to online operation and to transactions that are performed in batch mode.

Today, transaction monitors are commonly used in a so-called three-tier configuration (tier  = stages) (presentation, application logic, data storage) and usually cover the following core functions:

* Message Queuing (Managing the Message Flow)
* Lock management (access management and mutual security)
* Logging (administration of log functions)
* Roll-back functions (return to the previous state)
* Load Balancing
* Two-Phase Commit Synchronization (ensures that a transaction is completed or a rollback occurs)


As a transaction monitor u. a. Information Management System Transaction Monitor (IMS) or Customer Information Control System (CICS). The IMS database section, VSAM databases (Virtual System Access Method) or DB2 (Database 2) are available as database systems for IMS. For CICS, VSAM, IMS DB or DB2 can be used as database systems.

Even though the transaction monitors and database systems sometimes still offer their own internal protection systems for historical reasons, a security system such as RACF (Resource Access Control Facility) is usually used in addition today. RACF can be used to authenticate the user, protect transactions and protect data elements.



## Examples 
* All security mechanisms should be controlled by RACF as much as possible. The internal security mechanisms are only to be used where there are no adequate RACF functions.




