#M 2.581 Establishment of an administration network for network management
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The management and monitoring of resources within a network that is subject to stringent security requirements must be adequately implemented. The resources within a network must be managed and monitored accordingly, especially the systems with increased security needs such as. active network components. The network management system used for this must be adequately protected.

Building your own Network Management LAN, which is solely for administrative tasks, is often the most straightforward, effective, and economical way to meet those requirements. In this administration network, PCs are stationed, which exclusively serve for the management of critical components.

Basically, secure protocols (SSHstatt Telnet, HTTPSstattHTTP) must also be used for administration within this network. However, the at least logical, if not physical, separation of this production network administration network makes the use of insecure protocols, particularly the SMMP version 1, which is still almost inevitable in many production environments, tolerable.



## Examples 
* A very simple setup of an administration network can start with a separate switch being put into operation.
* All clients of the administrators are bound to the administration network with their network connection.
* All servers and systems with increased security requirements (active network components) receive an additional network connection and are thus linked to the administration network.
* On the servers, the administration access of the operating and application software is, wherever possible, exclusively linked to the network address in the administration network.




