#M 2.280 Criteria for the procurement and suitable selection of routers and switches
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Active network components differ in their scope of performance, the security mechanisms offered, ease of use and economic efficiency. If errors are made during procurement, this can have serious consequences for the secure operation of a network, since with inappropriate devices the desired level of security may be difficult to achieve.

Before routers and switches are procured, a list of requirements must therefore be drawn up to evaluate the products available on the market. Based on the evaluation, a sound purchasing decision can then be made, which ensures that the product to be procured meets the requirements in practical operation.

From the point of view of information security, central requirements for active network components are that they allow the administration via secure protocols and that the user management of the device allows the organization-wide role concept to be implemented accordingly. The requirement that passwords should only be stored encrypted in the device should actually be a matter of course, but there are still devices where passwords can be stored in plain text in configuration files SEN. For new purchases, no devices should be considered which offer no secure administration option and where it is not possible to store encrypted passwords.

Even purely functional features of active network components can have an impact on information security. In most cases the basic value availability is affected, for example if a device does not reach the required throughput rates due to insufficient memory. In addition, support from the manufacturer plays a not insignificant role, for example when it comes to promptly providing patches for security breaches.

Here are some basic requirements for acquiring routers and switches. Subsequently, some special requirements for routers and switches are described separately.



## Examples 
* Basic Functional Requirements Does the device support all required protocols and cabling types?
* Security Does the system support secure administration protocols? If routers and switches are not administered through their own administration network, these devices must be configurable using secure network protocols (such as SSH2) Secured Passwords Storage Devices that store passwords without encryption should no longer be purchased.
* Maintainability If the manufacturer offers regular updates and quickly available security patches, it is particularly important that the manufacturer responds promptly to known security breaches. Often the access to updates and support services by the manufacturer is only possible in connection with a valid maintenance contract Maximalethe maximum response times for troubleshooting are determined? A maintenance contract is only suitable if the guaranteed reaction times and recommissioning times can be used to meet the specified requirements for the availability of the devices. Provides the manufacturer a technical support service (hotline) that is able to help immediately in case of problems? This point should be part of the completed maintenance contract. When concluding the contract, attention must be paid to the language of the manufacturer's hotline provided.
* Reliability / Resilience How reliable and fail-safe is the product? The manufacturer should be able to provide reliable reliability, such as Mean Time Between Failures (MTBF) and Mean Time To Repair (MTTR) Manufacturers High Availability Solutions If maintenance requirements can not be met by the availability requirements, the system must support high availability solutions.
* Ease of Use Can the product be easily installed, configured, and administered, as well as providing training for the product?
* Costs What is the cost of the equipment and what are the expected ongoing costs (maintenance, operation, support)? These costs should be taken into account during the procurement phase. The contents of the maintenance and support contracts should be checked (response times, hotline, qualification of personnel, etc.) What are the expected running costs for the staff? Do you need to purchase additional software or hardware components (eg RADIUS server, network management system)? This question should be answered already in the planning phase. If, for example, a network management system is already in use, compatibility with the equipment to be procured should be checked. In addition, the effort to integrate the devices into an existing infrastructure should be taken into account. What are the costs for training administrators?
* Functionality Can the system be safely integrated into the existing network management architecture, taking into account the integration effort. The manufacturer should provide MIB tables and information on the supported NMS protocols. Does the system support NTP? NTP is particularly important with regard to logging, see also M 4.227 Use of a local NTP server for time synchronization. Does the system support the integration of authentication servers (eg RADIUS or TACACS +)? If an authentication server is already in use, the system should be able to use it.
* Logging What logging options are available? The logging options offered must at least meet the requirements set out in the security policy. In particular, the following points are relevant: Is the level of detail of the logging configurable, does logging capture all relevant data, does the system support central logging (for example, syslog), and routers and switches should support centralized logging? Can the logging be carried out in such a way that the provisions of data protection can be met? Are alerting functions supported? Attacks on routers and switches should be reported centrally and promptly by alerting the devices. This can be done for example on the basis of a network management system.
* InfrastructureDimensions and Compatibility with Protection CubiclesThe space requirements of routers and switches must also be taken into account during procurement. Can the device be installed in the protective covers provided (form factor, weight, fasteners)? Power supply and consumablesThe manufacturer should be able to provide information on power consumption and ambient temperature requirements. Is the available capacity of the power supply and the UPS sufficient? Is the existing cooling capacity sufficient to dissipate the heat from the appliance?




