#M 2.534 Create a Cloud Usage Strategy
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: administration / management, specialist responsible

The decision of an institution to use cloud services always has a strategic component, even if the scope of the cloud service is low. The latter can lead one to reduce or deny the consequences of this outsourcing, since in many cases it is the first case of outsourcing of IT services in the institution. Often, IT outsourcing differs from cloud usage in scope, duration, and how the services are provided. Nevertheless, the use of cloud services is always an outsourcing (at least if an external service provider is commissioned) and thus strategic in nature. This requires a detailed consideration of the economic, technical and organizational boundary conditions as well as the safety-relevant aspects.

This measure will be implemented when an institution has already decided in favor of the use of cloud services. In addition, the institution already has concrete ideas about which cloud services (for example, online storage service) should be used. The final selection or definition of a specific cloud service is not part of this measure. It takes place only after the development of a basic cloud usage strategy.

The considerations described below should be considered and documented when creating a Cloud Usage Strategy.



## Examples 
* Depending on the cloud usage model, the cloud service provider gains access to the data of the commissioning institution. This access can also affect data with high protection requirements.
* The technical implementation of the cloud use project requires the transfer of data between the ordering institution and the cloud service provider. The resulting increased risk potential must be determined by the institution and evaluated accordingly.
* The introduction of cloud services requires the design, implementation and implementation of new processes and workflows. The consequences of the resulting necessary changes must be determined and estimated.




