#M 2.436 Destruction of data carriers by external service providers
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, data protection officer, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: Head of Organization

If external service providers are used for the destruction of data carriers, detailed regulations must be made with them (see B.M.2.253 Contract drafting with the outsourcing service provider). Despite outsourcing, internal rules are needed to determine, for example, how data carriers are collected and stored until collection by the service provider. TheDINSPEC 66399: 2012 Part 3 Process of Data Destruction defines criteria for the integration of service providers. In many cases, the service provider for the destruction is also charged with the removal of already destroyed data carriers or the removal of undamaged data carriers with the objectives of destruction and subsequent recovery. In doing so, the applicable statutory provisions must be observed.



## Examples 
* Are the data carriers to be destroyed secured against unauthorized access until they are collected?
* Have persons been designated and instructed by the client to control the disposal process?
* Does the client regularly check the disposal process?
* Are collection and transport of the data carriers to be destroyed adequately secured?
* Is the security process at the disposal service provider reliable, comprehensible and appropriate to the protection requirements of the data carriers to be destroyed?




