#M 2.105 Procurement of telecommunications systems
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: building services, procurement

When procuring the PBXs or other components, such as the expansion of a classic TC system umVoIP, the results of the requirements analysis and planning should be included. The variety of functions and applications make the selection and procurement relatively complicated and time-consuming.

In addition, existing communication systems and components of the company and procurement must be taken into account. If a PBX is not procured completely new, it must be ensured that old stock and new purchases are compatible with each other. When procuring new PBX systems, care must be taken to ensure that they are selected in such a way that a high level of security can be achieved in later operation with minimal additional personnel and organizational overhead. This must be done in the first place

* the presence of suitable functionalities for the plant administration,
* sufficient protocol mechanisms and Auswertemglichkeiten as well as
* The revision capability of the PBX


be respected.

When procuring a classic PBX, it is also important to note whether it also has to offer analogue subscriber lines in addition to digital ones. Analogue connections may be necessary because analogue terminals such as facsimile machines, answering machines, cordless telephones, modems for data applications such as signaling or emergency calls are to be connected. Then there are the analogue or digital devices selected according to the desired features.

In hybrid systems, classic PBX systems are being enhanced with IP functions, making it possible to connect IP terminals to the PBX. In addition to the PBX, conventional or IP-capable terminals must be procured. If a PC is used as a terminal, then it must have the network interfaces, telephony software, sound card, microphone and possibly a headset.

In a VoIP-based solution, the following elements must be considered: VoIP PBX, VoIP phones, softphones, VoIP server software and other network elements. Optionally, the integration of wireless solutions and value-added services such as unified communications, which include CTI (Computer Telephone Integration), unified messaging and voice mail as well as an attendant or billing system.

Part 2 (Procurement Guide) of the Technical Guideline Safe PBXs developed by the BS may be used to assist in the procurement of PBXs. The Procurement Guide first identifies selection criteria for the components of a TC solution, which are derived from the measures specified in Part 1 of the Technical Guideline. The requirements are weighted differently in a rating table depending on the scenarios considered. The structure is based on the methodology of the document for the tendering and evaluation of IT services (UfAB IV). For product selection and acceptance, test criteria are developed which, in addition to tests of the configuration, also describe tests at the level of the protocol interfaces using protocol analyzers and simulation tools.

Stand: 13. EL Stand 2013



