#M 2.85 Release of standard software
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Head of Department, Head of IT

Before the standard software is transferred to active operation, the formal release is available. Responsible for the release of a product is the authority or company management, but they can delegate this to the management of the department or the management of the IT department. The specialist department can further restrict the approval procedure specified by the authorities or company management by means of its own restrictions. The use of non-approved software must be prohibited (see M 2.9 Use of non-approved hardware and software).

The release is always preceded by the successful completion of all necessary tests (see M 2.83 Testing standard software). A release must not take place if during the tests intolerable errors, eg. considerable safety defects were found.

For the release, installation or configuration instructions are to be worked out, the level of detail of which depends on whether the installation is to be performed by the system administrator or the user. The installation or configuration instructions are the results of the tests carried out during procurement (see M 2.83 Testing of standard software). If different configurations are allowed, the impact of each configuration on security must be demonstrated. In particular, it must be determined whether restrictions on the product functionality or the access rights are to be made for all or only some users. For determining these boundary conditions, the personnel and works council, the data protection officer and the IT security officer must be involved in good time.

The release should take the form of a written release declaration. In the release statement, statements should be made on the following points:

* Program name and version number,
* Name of the IT process in which the product is to be used,
* Confirmation that the IT components used meet the technical requirements,
* Date of release, signature of the releaser,
* Declaration of safety on the part of the IT security officer, data protection officer, personnel or works council,
* intended time of use in active operation,
* for which users the product is released,
* Installation instructions, especially at which workplaces it is installed with which configuration,
* who is authorized to install it,
* who has access to the installation media and
* which training courses are to be carried out before use of the product.


The release declaration must be made known to all parties, in particular copies should be available at the clearance authority, the IT department, the specialist department and, if applicable, the IT user.

In addition, it must be regulated in organizational terms that the release and, if necessary, the necessary tests are repeated if fundamental properties, in particular in the area of ??security functions, have changed as a result of version changes or patches. Changes of the mentioned type are to be communicated to the person responsible for the release of the product.

Furthermore, it can be determined which standard software products are generally released, depending on the location and purpose of use. The prerequisite is that they at least checked for computer viruses, that the licensing issues are resolved and that they are registered. Examples for this would be:

* Demo versions for testing purposes, which are available on special computers,
* Public domain software installed on special servers
* Game programs on special computers set up in break rooms.




