#M 2.586 Establishment, modification and withdrawal of privileges
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

In an institution, a large number of different authorizations must be assigned and managed per user (see M 2.6 Assignment of access authorizations, M 2.7 assignment of access authorizations, M 2.8 assignment of access rights).

For the assignment and administration of task-specific authorizations, the development of a role model for the respective application is recommended for the respective system. This makes the administration clearer and easier.

User IDs and authorizations are subject to a life cycle, they are created, changed and deleted. Authorizations should be managed centrally, with the help of appropriate user and rights management tools to reduce the administration and maintenance costs.



## Examples 
* User: This is the individual who accesses the information, applications or IT systems under the user ID. With the exception of group identifiers, the user is usually the same as the owner.
* Approver: This is the person who authorizes the granting of access, access or access rights, typically those responsible. An approver should not be allowed to authorize rights for himself.
* Specialists: The responsible persons are the owners of information, applications, specialized procedures, business processes or systems. These have the final say on all issues related to content and usage as well as requirements of the particular information, applications or systems.
* IT operation: It is the task of the IT operations staff to set up the approved authorizations technically.




