#M 2.388 Suitable WLAN key management
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The use of cryptographic security mechanisms requires the confidential, integrity and authentic generation, distribution and installation of suitable keys (see also M 2.46 Appropriate Key Management). When using WEP or WPA-PSK or WPA2-PSK, the security of the WLAN depends significantly on the fact that the WLAN keys used are suitably selected and not compromised. Therefore, a suitable key management procedure must be selected, matching the existing cryptosystems. First, a distinction must be made between static (manual) and dynamic key management.



## Examples 
* Static keys: The PMK can be configured manually (as in WEP) as a static key, referred to as Pre-Shared Key (PSK), on access points and clients. There is usually the possibility to set the common secret key also over passwords. These passwords are converted to the PMK via hash functions. If such a PSK has too little complexity (in the sense of the length of the key and the randomness of the characters), it is susceptible to dictionary or dictionary attacks. Therefore, these passwords should have a high complexity and a length of at least 20 digits. From a certain point of a WLAN, rolling out a new key poses significant problems. Using the PSK is possible in combination with WPA or WPA2. If WPA-PSK or WPA2-PSK is used, it is recommended that the keys be changed at least every three to six months to protect communication or authentication.
* Dynamic keys: A higher level of security is provided by a dynamic key management and distribution mechanism, which ensures that a new key is routinely and in particular after a successful authentication of the WLAN client at the access point (PMK) is provided. IEEE 802.11i uses a different standard for this key management and distribution, namely IEEE 802.1X. This standard has been designed for port-based network access control in wired networks. The basic idea in IEEE 802.1X is that the activation of a network port only takes place when the user has successfully authenticated himself against the network. The authentication takes place on layer 2. For this to work at all, IEEE 802.1X specifies an interface between client, network element and an authentication system. This interface is based on the Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP) and an adaptation of this protocol for the transmission on Layer 2 in LAN (referred to as EAP over LAN, EAPOL). This goes hand in hand with the definition of a key management and distribution function.




