#M 2.407 Planning the administration of directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The administration of a directory service requires careful planning. Care should be taken to ensure sufficient separation of administrative tasks and related administrator accounts. In principle, the management of the directory service itself should be separated from the management of the data in the directory, for example by creating the administrative roles of service management and data management with different areas of responsibility.

Service administrators should be responsible for providing the full directory service, directory-wide settings, installing and maintaining the software, and installing the operating system on the directory service servers.

Data administrators, on the other hand, should be responsible for managing the data stored in the directory service and thus on the directory service servers. You should not be able to configure and deploy the directory service. In addition, data administrators should not be responsible for all the data in the directory service as much as possible. Typically, they manage a subset of the directory service objects. Using settings in the Access Control Lists for the objects stored in the directory service, you should limit the administrative capabilities of a particular administrator account to specific areas of the directory service.

Some information required to manage or configure the directory service is controlled by objects in the directory service itself. Although this information, such as. Trusts, schemas, or rules for replication that are stored in the directory service should be managed by the service administrators. As a result, service administrators can also act as data administrators, but not vice versa.

In addition, a more extensive administrative model for the directory service can also be planned. The establishment of role-based administration and the ability to delegate administrative tasks affect the security of the directory service and deserve special attention. In the case of meaningful, clear and consistent design of the security administration, increased transparency and efficiency can be created at the same time.

As part of the planning of the administration of directory services, the following questions must be answered for each institution:

* Which administrator groups are needed?
* Which administrative model is implemented? Centralized or decentralized administration?
* Which administrative roles should exist within the tree structure?
* Should administrative tasks be delegated? To whom?
* Which objects may be accessed by which administrators via the various directory service interfaces?


The following security-related issues should be considered when planning directory service administration:

* Delegation is achieved by granting access to the directory service objects and their attributes. In general, the inheritance mechanism is used to manage permissions on objects in sub-trees. However complex scenarios with delegation and thus rights inheritance should be avoided. Otherwise, these become very unclear and barely manageable, so that security gaps can easily arise due to misconfigurations.
* By default, when installing a directory service for the first time, a general administrator is created that has full access rights to all objects of the directory service. This should be changed during the first installation. The distribution of access rights should be in accordance with the previously defined administrative model.
* In the case of the administrative delegation, only the essential rights needed to carry out the delegated administrative activities should be granted.
* The administrative access to the first or top part of the directory service should be particularly protected due to the wide-ranging authorizations. If the protection requirement is correspondingly high, consideration should be given to granting this access only in the four-eye principle, for example by means of a shared password.
* Schema modifications are very critical operations and may, if any, only be performed by authorized administrators after careful planning. They have to be documented accurately.
* In the event that a separate certification authority (CA) is included in the directory service, their operation and administration must be planned in accordance with the previously established security policy.
* The administrative activities should be delegated in such a way that no overlaps arise as far as possible. Otherwise, two administrators could make mutually contradictory changes that could lead to replication conflicts. An administration model with overlapping responsibilities can reduce the risk of replication conflicts. If replication conflicts are to be expected or have already occurred, a manual check of the values ??should always be carried out at regular intervals and following important changes.


* The model of the administrative delegation and the resulting rights assignments must be documented.
* For large directory services, a tool-supported administration should be considered. For virtually all directory services there are various commercial and freely available tools. If such tools are used, they must be securely configured and operated.




