#M 2.166 Regulation of the use of cryptomodules
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Even during operation, there are a number of security requirements for the use of crypto modules. These must be adequately integrated into the technical and organizational environment in which they are used.

For this, some organizational rules have to be met:

* Responsible persons must be named for the creation of the crypto-concept, for the selection as well as for the safe operation of the cryptographic products.
* Appropriate personnel measures must be defined or implemented (training, user support, substitution regulations, obligations, role assignments).
* Users should not only be trained in handling the crypto modules they are to handle, they should also be made aware of the usefulness and necessity of cryptographic procedures and should be given an overview of basic cryptographic concepts (see also M  3.23 Introduction to Basic Cryptographic Terms).
* If there are any problems or even suspicions of security incidents when using crypto modules, it must be clearly defined what should be done in such cases. All users must be informed about the corresponding rules of conduct and reporting procedures.
* As part of the crypto concept, it is necessary to specify who needs to use which crypto products and when and which boundary conditions must be observed (eg key deposit).
* The correct use of crypto modules should be checked regularly. Likewise, it must be regularly questioned whether the cryptographic methods used still correspond to the state of the art (see also M 2.35 Obtaining information about security gaps in the system).
* Depending on the defined availability requirements, replacement crypto modules should be kept in place to ensure smooth operation. This is particularly important where access to encrypted data depends on the functionality of a single crypto module, e.g. In data archiving or ISDN encryption.


It is a safe operation of the crypto modules to ensure, including:

* Before commissioning, the optimal configuration of the crypto modules must be defined, eg. In terms of key lengths, operating modes or crypto algorithms.
* The specified configuration must be documented so that it can be quickly reestablished after a system failure or reinstallation.
* For users, the crypto products must be preconfigured by the administrator so that maximum security can be achieved without further user intervention.
* For more complex crypto products, suitable manuals must be available.
* The crypto modules must be securely installed and subsequently tested (eg whether they can be encrypted correctly and whether they can be operated by the user).
* The requirements for the operating environment must be defined, and additional measures may have to be taken in the IT environment. The safety requirements for the IT systems on which the cryptographic methods are used can be found in the respective system-specific components, eg. For clients (including laptops) and for servers from layer 3.
* It has to be determined who has to wait for the crypto modules as usual.


Also in the context of key management (see M 2.46 Appropriate key management) various requirements must be made:

* Specifications for key generation and selection,
* Specifications for the secure storage of cryptographic keys,
* Defining the key change strategy and intervals.




