#M 2.470 Execution of a requirement analysis for PBX systems
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Before a TC system is procured or an existing system is expanded, it makes sense to carry out a requirements analysis. In this context, the fundamental question must first be clarified, which functions the PBX must offer in addition to pure telephony. In addition, the deployment scenario of the PBX must be clarified. The installation of a telecommunications system is conceivable, for example, for pure customer contact, for internal office communication or for use in a call center. Usage scenarios can help to clarify which communication services are needed. The number of terminals and the number of connections that can be used at the same time also play a role in the selection of a PBX. The result should enable the planning and thus the selection of a suitable and secure PBX system for the institution.

The results of the requirements analysis must be documented and agreed with the corresponding IT officers.

Within the scope of the requirements analysis, the following points must be resolved, among others:

* In what form should the PBX be used: as a classic PBX, as a VoIP system or as a hybrid system? Or is an IP system connection a possible alternative?
* How many internal and how many external connections should the PBX be able to manage? Can this number be increased after purchase?
* How will the connection to the public telephone network (PSTN) take place? Is the number of simultaneous calls set (ISDN or S2m lines) or should it be possible to configure them as required (IP system connection)?
* How many internal communication connections should be possible at the same time?
* What tasks should the PBX to be planned fulfill? Which functions should be provided? Are there any functions that must be provided in every case?
* Can existing terminals provide all the required functions in conjunction with the PBX at the workplace, or must new terminals be procured?
* Does any existing wiring meet the requirements of the PBX or does the wiring need to be replaced?
* Should a PBX be procured again or can an existing PBX be extended?
* Are there special requirements for the availability of the PBX or for the confidentiality or integrity of the stored or processed data?
* Does the PBX offer the option of subsequently implementing further functions (hardware, software and / or firmware)?
* Is communication between several PBXs planned to connect different locations or branches of the institution? Are these existing PBXs compatible with the new one to be planned so that all required functions are available company-wide?
* How is the security of the PBX (access and access), the telephone network and the terminals ensured?
* Is a service or maintenance contract necessary for the PBX? Is a timely repair and troubleshooting possible?


Based on the results, the requirements for the PBX must be defined and defined. Additional market analyzes and possibly the advice of external specialist firms help to work out specific requirements from the requirements and to procure the appropriate PBX for the institution. More detailed information can be found in the measures M 2.471 Planning of the use of PBXs and M 2.105 procurement of PBX systems.



