#M 2.315 Planning the server deployment
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

A basic prerequisite for a server to operate safely is an adequate level of planning in advance.

The planning for the use of a server can be carried out in several steps according to the principle of top-down design: Based on a rough concept for the overall system, concrete plans for sub-components are defined in specific sub-concepts. Planning does not only concern aspects that are classically associated with the term security, but also normal operational aspects that result in safety requirements.

In the rough concept, for example, the following typical questions should be dealt with:

* Which tasks should the system to be planned fulfill? Which services should be provided by the server? Are there special requirements for the availability of the system or for the confidentiality or integrity of the stored or processed data? These specifications come from the general planning and are determined by the general objectives. The more precisely the general conditions are known and the more precisely the specifications are formulated, the easier the following planning steps become.
* Should certain hardware components be used in the system? This can be important, for example, for the selection of the operating system.
* Which requirements for the hardware (CPU, main memory, capacity of the hard disks, capacity of the network, etc.) arise from the general requirements?
* Is the network used a homogenous or heterogeneous computer network?
* Does the system replace an old, existing one? Do you want to take over data assets or hardware components from the old system?
* Should further operating systems be installed on the computer by multiboot?


The following subconcepts should be considered when planning the server deployment:

* Authentication and User Management: What types of user management and user authentication should be used on the system? Are users only managed locally or should a central administration system be used? Should the system access a central, network-based authentication service or is only a local authentication required? More information can be found in M 4.133 Suitable selection of authentication mechanisms.
* User and group concept: Based on the organization-wide user, rights and role concept, appropriate rules must be created for the system (see also M 2.31 Authorized User and Rights Profile Documentation and M 2.30 User User Configuration / User groups).
* Administration: How should the system be administered? Are all settings made locally or the server integrated into a central administration and configuration management?


* Partition and file system layout: In the planning phase, a first estimate of the required disk space should be made. For ease of administration and maintenance, it is recommended that as far as possible separate the operating system (system programs and configuration), application programs and data (for example, database server and data), and possibly user data. Various operating systems offer different mechanisms for this (division into drives under Windows, file systems under Unix). Often it can be useful to save certain data even on your own hard disk or your own disk system. This allows, for example, for a new installation or an update of the system, the data on the other partitions without copying to take over.




* If data with high protection requirements regarding confidentiality is stored on the server, the use of encrypted file systems is strongly recommended. Not necessarily all file systems need to be encrypted, but it will often be sufficient to provide encryption for the part of the file system on which the data itself is stored. This is facilitated by proper planning of the partition and file system layout. When selecting encryption of individual files and directories, users should be free to choose whether the files are to be encrypted or stored in an unencrypted form. During the planning phase, the intended partitioning of the partitions and their size should be documented become.


* Network Services and Network Connectivity: Depending on the confidentiality, integrity, and availability requirements of the data to be stored or processed on the server, the server's network connectivity must be planned. Generally, a server is not recommended directly on the same IP subnet as the clients that should access the server. If the server is separated from the clients by at least one router, then there are much better ways to control access and detect network traffic anomalies that indicate potential problems.




* A server that stores or processes data with a high protection requirement in terms of confidentiality or integrity should be located in its own IP subnet and at least be separated from the rest of the network by a packet filter. With a very high protection requirement, an application level gateway should be used. With normal protection requirements, a server that is used exclusively by clients from the internal network can exceptionally also be located in the same subnet. However, in this case it is recommended to relocate the server to a separate subnet when pending changes in the network structure.




* Depending on the intended use of the computer, access to certain services in the network (such as web, file, database, print, DNS or mail server) may also be required. This must already be taken into account in the planning, so that difficulties do not arise at a later date, for example due to low transmission capacities or problems with interconnected security gateways.




* In addition to the actual service for which a server is set up, other services are often required in order to be able to use and administrate the server efficiently. For example, administration over the network requires secure access (for example, SSH, see also M 5.64 Secure Shell), or the files for a web offer can be transmitted to the web server via the network become. If the resulting network communication takes place via insecure networks, suitable secure protocols must be used. In addition, the services may only be made available to authorized users and computers. This can be realized by a password assignment, by the use of a packet filter (see for example M 4.238 use of a local packet filter or block B 3.301 security gateway (firewall)) or other mechanisms. No service should be provided on an insecure network, such as the Internet, unless expressly intended.




* In the planning phase, an overview should be made of the envisaged and required network services and of the network connections needed in this connection. In general, it is important to consider how great the dependence of a system on the functioning of the network connection may already be in the planning phase.


* Tunnel or VPN: If it is foreseeable already in the planning phase that the system must be accessed via insecure networks, suitable solutions should be investigated early on. For example, the access can be made via a VPN.
* Monitoring: To monitor the availability and utilization of the system and the services offered, a monitoring system can be used. For this, a monitoring daemon is installed on a further server, to which a locally installed agent sends the data to be monitored. Furthermore, it is possible to monitor the activities of network services offered by external systems. In case of problems, for example, an administrator can be automatically alerted.


* Logging: The logging of messages from the system and the services used plays an important role, for example in the diagnosis and correction of malfunctions or in the detection and detection of attacks. In the planning phase it should be decided which information should be logged at least and how long the log data should be stored. In addition, it must be specified whether the log data is to be stored locally on the system or on a central log server in the network. It is sensible to specify in the planning phase how and at what times data is to be evaluated.
* High Availability: If special demands are placed on the availability of the system and its services, it should be considered in the planning phase how these requirements can be met (see also M6.43 Use of redundant Windows systems). Server).


All decisions made in the planning phase must be documented in such a way that they can be reconstructed at a later date. It should be noted that usually other persons besides the author must evaluate this information. Therefore, attention must be paid to appropriate structuring and comprehension.



