#M 2.502 Regulation of responsibilities in the area of ??data protection
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: administration / company management

Privacy is essential to all IT systems and procedures that process personal information. The aspects of data protection must therefore be integrated from the beginning of the planning for the introduction of an IT procedure within the framework of security management. This is the only way to ensure that all important aspects are taken into account and that all tasks are performed efficiently and effectively.

A detailed list of tasks to be processed and regulations to be considered, which must be considered under data protection aspects, can be found in M 2.1 Definition of responsibilities and regulations.

The appointment of an operational data protection officer (BDSB) and its integration into security management is a measure that is particularly suitable for this purpose. There is also the possibility to order an external bDSB.

The bDSB independently monitors the observance of data protection, but also to a certain extent forms the link between the autonomous application of the law by the data processing agency on the one hand and the state control on the other hand.

The order is, with a few exceptions, required by law:

* For federal public authorities and non-public bodies in the BDSG (   4 f, g) and for the social security authorities in the Social Security Code (  35 SGB I,   81 (1) SGB X in conjunction m    4 f, g BDSG).
* For public authorities of the federal states, the obligation to order is also prescribed in some state data protection laws.


Even in areas where the appointment of a data protection officer does not take place, compliance with data protection requirements must be ensured. This can also be done by security management. At least an internal IT audit and data protection control should be set up for this purpose (see also M 2.110 Data protection aspects during logging).



## Examples 
* Advice to the management and the other employees on privacy-related issues
* Carrying out announced or unannounced inspections




