#M 2.514 Maintaining data protection during operation
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Data Protection Officer, IT Security Officer

Apart from the appointment of a corporate data protection officer (BDSB), the establishment of an internal IT audit and data protection control is an important measure within the scope of the organizational control prescribed by data protection laws. It helps to ensure the security of data processing and compliance with data protection requirements on site and in a timely manner.

The IT audit checks the correctness of the data processing by controlling the implementation of the IT security concept. This includes, in particular, controlling the documentation of the procedures, the prescribed application of the procedure and the entire security measures.

The internal data protection control, which is usually the responsibility of the data protection officer (see M 2.502 regulation of responsibilities in the area of ??data protection), however, checks the compliance with the requirements of data protection laws. These include:

* the scrutiny of procedures for compliance with the legal basis and purpose,
* ensuring the rights of the person concerned to information, correction, blocking, cancellation and damages;
* informing or committing employees to privacy,
* the maintenance of file or process overviews and device directories and
* the control of the technical-organizational measures derived from the legal regulations for access control, access control, access control, forwarding control, input control, order control, availability control and separate processing according to the purpose.


IT revision and data protection control work together meaningfully and complement each other. By timely checking the log data they help z. B. to quickly detect possible misuse and to minimize the retention and scope of the log data. They can advise the data processing department on the redesign and development of procedures and serve as competent contact persons during inspection visits by the supervisory authorities or the Federal and State Data Protection Commissioners. Both functions can also be transferred to secondary employees and, in the case of small jobs, can be combined in one hand. In principle, however, care must be taken to ensure that there is no collision of interests with otherwise performed tasks (see also M 2.502 Regulation of responsibilities in the area of ??data protection).



