#M 2.552 Creation of a specification
Responsible for initiation: Specialist, Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible

A specification describes how the specifications should be technically implemented. In general, the client, ie. B. the responsible department, the specifications. Building on this, the (internal or external) development department that is to create the application prepares the specification sheet in which the technical implementation of the requirements specifications is formulated. The specifications must be checked by the client to ensure that all requirements from the specifications are mapped in such a way that the desired development goals can be achieved. It makes sense to include the security management in order to ensure that the formulated security goals are achieved.

At least the following aspects should be considered:



## Examples 
* Before an application can be put into live operation, it must be tested and released. The specifications must contain at least the planned procedures and criteria for the tests and approvals. It has proven to be useful to describe in the specifications at least the test scenarios critical for a successful release (see Test and Release, M 2.83 Testing Standard Software and M 2.62 Software Acceptance and Release Procedures).
* Migration: If the new application removes an existing application, business processes and IT environment must be adapted and data assets migrated to the new application. Experience has shown that the migration phase is always particularly critical to safety and must be carefully prepared and carried out. Towards the end of the migration phase, the associated data must also be transferred to the new application and the data formats used there. Further information can be found in M 2.319 Migration of a server. The Migration Guide of the Federal Government Commissioner for Information Technology provides valuable information on planning the procedure for the migration of applications.




