#M 2.198 Raising employee awareness of information security
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, supervisor

Many security incidents are caused by improper behavior: Employees may cause security gaps due to ignorance, misconduct or careless disclosure of information. Therefore, it should be ensured that all employees have the information security knowledge required for their job, that they can identify cases as such early on and that they are able to take reasonable action on safety issues on their own responsibility. One of the most important tasks of information security management is to make employees aware of the topic of information security.

sensitization content

In order to achieve this, the employees must be given a plausible and comprehensible illustration of why and to what extent information security is important for the institution, but also especially for their workplace. They must be aware of the hazards and effects of security incidents as well as the necessary measures and the relevant rules in the security documents (see M 3.93 Awareness and training target groups analysis).

The following topics should be taught:

* Basic principles of information security,
* Overview of information, threats and information security measures to be protected, with and without the use of IT,
* Contents of the information security policy of the institution,
* Goal and content of the security concept,
* Tasks, objectives and values ??of the institution: Here the term values ??includes both assets (eg information, production facilities, employees, special knowledge) and ideal values ??(eg philosophy, code of conduct).


These topics should be underpinned with examples for a better understanding and as close as possible to the working environment of the employees. The topics mentioned here are just a selection. Awareness-raising measures should always be adapted to the individual circumstances of the institution. To effectively reduce awareness of information security and to permanently change established practices, a continuous learning process is required. Meaningful continuous sensitization measures must be adapted to the working environment and the target group.

Information security materials

In order to sensitize employees for information security, they have to be addressed again and again in different ways and platforms. This can be done using platforms that already exist in the institution but also use redesigned ones. Sensitization can also be promoted by attractive promotional materials or campaigns. These include targeted communications and information security slogans. To keep them in the field of vision for a long time, brief information security instructions can be placed on calendars or coffee cups, for example. Characters can also convey messages effectively via posters. These should be hung up in conspicuous places. In the canteen, in the elevator and in meeting rooms, replace regularly. For example, there are posters about information security topics from various manufacturers of security products and advertising material manufacturers. Information security phrases should be simple and responsive, and may be entertaining depending on the organizational culture, such as backing up is null and void, does not take the password so important! or waiver of the mail, the content is very explosive!

For the mediation of topics around the information security offers z. B.following media:

* Flyer and news ticker with the most important information and basic statements of the information security department
* Information brochures for selected situations, such as workstations, meeting rooms, behavioral tips for business trips
* Posters and screensavers
* Mugs, mousepads or similar items with information security information
* E-mails from the security management team to keep track of current incidents and recall safety rules over and over again
* Video clips on selected sensitization topics, such as: B.Communication with non-organizational persons without a visitor's card
* Brief information security events at internal events, such as departmental meetings or existing training sessions
* Publication of articles in employee magazines on current dangerous situations, on security relevant premises (if there is no risk of imitation), on the presentation of security measures, etc.


In addition, interactive forms of sensitization such as workshops and role-playing games are also available (see M 3.47 Implementation of Information Security Planning Games). When raising employee awareness, it should be considered which media and forms of communication are appropriate for the institution and are considered as acceptable channels.

Implementation of awareness-raising measures

Information security awareness campaigns can also be supported by training programs. They are therefore to be taken into account in the sensitization concept. Detailed information about the training is described in M 2.557 Concept of an Information Security Training Program.

To ensure that all employees develop an awareness of information security, a long-term learning and development process must be established. A further deepening of information security issues has to be built up and kept up to date and permanently present. Content and media should be coordinated so that they familiarize employees with information security and give them the necessary background and individual requirements.

Four areas (awareness, training, reinforcement and public relations) of a awareness-raising campaign are described below. These ranges depend on each other in a meaningful way in the design, but need not necessarily be performed in a strict chronological order.

sensitization

In the area of ??awareness raising, employees should be given background information to understand why the institution has decided on specific security policies, what are the current threats, how these affect the institution, and what this would mean for employees would recommend. The purpose of this background information is to make employees aware of both the subject and the training courses.

Media Examples of background information: info events, flyers, brochures, posters, screensavers, mouse pads, videos, etc.

training

The training area supports the employee in behaving in accordance with the requirements of the security concept and averting risks to information security. The respective target group-specific training needs are derived from the security concept and a subsequent target group analysis (see M 3.93 Analysis of target groups for awareness-raising and training programs).

Media examples Training: Presence training, supplementing existing trainings, web courses, infotainment, videos, etc.

Reinforcement

In the field of reinforcement, care should be taken to keep the learning curve at a high level as long as possible after training has taken place, and to ensure that the staff members are permanently aware of the topic of information security (see M 3.95 Guidance on learning).

Media examples: newsletters, forums, competitions, refresher courses, etc.

public relations

Through public relations work, the maturity of the sensitization process can be shown inwards and outwards. Contributions f rz. B.Congresses, specialized media or working groups The awareness-raising measures carried out by the institution and the staff can help to create a positive image of security and make a valuable contribution to raising awareness.

Media examples Public relations: employee newspapers, journals, press releases, congress contributions, working groups, etc.



