#M 2.334 Selection of a suitable building
Responsible for Initiation: Public Authority / Management, Head of Internal Service

Responsible for implementation: internal service

In addition to site planning (see M 1.16 Suitable site selection), which looks at the surroundings of a building, a building must be assessed for its internal suitability. In principle, of course, it should already be checked during the building selection whether all measures relevant for the later use can then also be implemented.

For some of these measures, however, the conditions can subsequently only be created with extremely great effort or not at all. Therefore, this measure should help in the selection of an existing building, typically to avoid as late as possible later occurring problems as far as possible. But it can also be helpful when planning a new building.

Individual aspects vary depending on whether the building is purchased or rented. From the point of view of information security, the following must be considered, among other things, with regard to the condition of the building fabric:

* The statics (maximum ceiling load, load-bearing walls) enables the installation of high-volume rooms (server room, computer center, UPS, etc.) where it would be useful to organize in terms of work economy and information security (see also M 1.13 Arrangement of worth- worthy building parts as well as for a RZ M 1.47 Own fire section)?
* If existing or additionally required access routes (corridors, staircases, elevators) can be used and set up in such a way that measures such as. B.M 2.17 Access control and control should also be meaningfully implemented?
* Is it possible, due to the access routes, to separate areas with high security requirements from those with low ones, so that eg. Training rooms outside of sensitive areas like product development?
* Can existing or additionally required access routes (corridors, stairwells, elevators) be used at any time for the transport of even larger IT components? If this is not guaranteed, the restart after a hardware damage can possibly be delayed considerably.
* Are there (construction) conditions (rights of way, monument protection etc.) that can hinder the needs-based use of the building? Particular attention must be paid to third-party rights of way, as these can collide with the necessary access-protected areas.
* Is it possible to distribute the space so that the measures M 1.8 Room occupancy can be implemented taking into account fire loads and M 1.51 fire load reduction?
* Can the measures M 1.3 Adjusting the distribution of circuits and M 1.39 Prevention of compensation currents be implemented on shieldings?
* Is there an external lightning protection? If yes, this has an influence on the details of the implementation of the measures M 1.25 overvoltage protection and M 1.39 prevention of compensating currents on shieldings.


In the case of rental properties, the following additional aspects must be taken into consideration:

* Does the tenant receive all the rights necessary for the appropriate construction of the building? What rights and possibilities of objections does the landlord have?
* Do safety devices have to be reset after the end of the rental period? It must be ensured in the planning phase that due to such additional costs, necessary safety measures are not waived.
* If the building is used by third parties at the same time, it must be decided to what extent the implementation of measures is hindered or even prevented.
* Do you as a tenant have a say in a later re-letting of third-used building parts? It may well be that a new co-user of the building must be regarded as more safety-critical than the previous one. Example: The personnel department of a small textbook publisher moves out and as a tenant there is a politically or socially very controversial organization set up a B ro ,


It should be documented which safety requirements were considered in the building selection. In particular, any potential security risks and measures taken to prevent them or reduce their impact should be recorded.



