#M 2.215 error handling
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

All errors affecting IT systems or communication links must be reported and logged. Of course, all error messages that are displayed on the basis of plausibility checks are excluded from this, ie, for example. caused by incorrect user input. It must be ensured that the reported errors are corrected as soon as possible.

The examination and elimination of errors should only be carried out by suitably trained personnel. All users should be aware of who should be notified when errors or problems occur with IT systems. In addition, users should be informed about any bugs that may interfere with working with IT systems, as well as how to fix them.

The reported error logs should contain the following information:

* Designation and version number of the affected IT systems and software,
* the time of the notification,
* a description of whether or to what extent the use of the affected IT systems is restricted,
* the name of the person responsible for the rectification as well
* the time of troubleshooting.


In some cases it may be useful or necessary not to correct errors that have occurred, for example. if no reliable patch is available or a spare part can not be procured. Then it should be noted in the log whether the affected IT component can continue to be operated with functional restrictions.

These logs should be checked periodically to see if they are current and if all reported bugs have been resolved.

Errors should only be corrected by those responsible. The elimination of errors must be within the security guidelines of the respective institution. If patches or updates are required for troubleshooting, they should be obtained directly from the manufacturer or from trusted sources (see also M 4.107 Using Vendor and Developer Resources). Larger corrective measures must first be tested on systems separate from the mesh, as they may also have undesirable side effects. After the fault has been remedied, the changed IT systems or components may need to be removed again and released (see M 2.62 Software Acceptance and Release Procedure).



