#M 2.226 Regulations for the use of external personnel
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Head of Human Resources, Head of IT

Frequently, outside authorities or companies rely on external support if the corresponding human resources are not available in-house. In extreme cases, this can lead to external personnel being used in their own house for such a long time that many employees no longer know exactly whether they are their own or external employees.

External employees who work in or for an organization for a long period of time and who may be able to gain access to confidential documents and data are required to comply with applicable applicable laws, regulations and regulations to commit to internal regulations (see also M 3.2 Employees' obligation to comply with applicable laws, regulations and regulations).

When employing external staff, it must also be ensured in any case that they are instructed in their duties at the beginning of their work, similar to their own employees (see M 3.1 Regulated induction / training of new employees). They are to be informed, as far as necessary to fulfill their duties and obligations, about in-house regulations and rules on IT security and the organization-wide IT security policy. This is especially true if they work within the properties of the client.

In addition, it should be ensured that substitution regulations also exist for external employees (see M 3.3 substitution regulations). It should also be ensured that they are familiar with the IT applications they use and also master the necessary security measures.

At the end of the contract, a regular handover of the work results and the documents and resources received must take place. In addition, all established access authorizations and access rights are to be withdrawn or deleted. In addition, the person making the withdrawal should be explicitly informed that the obligation to maintain secrecy remains even after termination of employment (see also M 3.6 Regulated procedure when leaving employees).

Third-party personnel to be deployed at short notice or once is to be treated like visitors, ie. For example, the stay in security-relevant areas is only allowed in the company of employees of the agency or the company (see also M 2.16 Supervision or assistance of third parties).



