#M 2.86 Ensuring the Integrity of Standard Software
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

It must be ensured that the released standard software can only be installed without change. This is to prevent that in the meantime intentional or unintentional changes can be made, eg. due to computer viruses, bit errors due to technical errors or manipulations in configuration files.

The installation must therefore be carried out exclusively from original data carriers or from numbered copies of the original data carriers. An alternative to the local installation of data media is the installation over a local network of a released version. It should be ensured that only authorized persons have access to it.

Backup copies should be made of the original data carriers if the data volume (eg CD-ROM) permits it. Original data carriers and all copies must be protected against unauthorized access (see M 6.21 Backup copy of the software used). The copies made should be numbered and included in inventories. Copies that are no longer needed should be deleted. Before the installation, a computer virus scan must be performed.

Optionally, a checksum (see M 4.34 Use of Encryption, Checksum or Digital Signatures) can be created from the original data media or from a reference version installed during the test, with the result that before installation the integrity of the the data carriers used or the versions stored in local networks or by means of which the correct installation can be checked. In addition, installed programs can be provided with checksums in addition to protection against unauthorized changes to the released configuration. In this way, infections with previously unknown computer viruses can be detected. It can also be used to determine if a virus infection occurred before or after installation.



