#M 2.110 Privacy aspects of logging
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In the context of data protection law, logging in the operation ofIT systems is the creation of manual or automated records from which the questions can be answered: who initiated or accessed what by what means? In addition, system states must be derived: Who had access rights from when to when?

The nature and extent of logging depends on general data protection law and also on sector-specific regulations.

The logging of the administration activities corresponds to a system monitoring, while the logging of the user activities essentially serves the procedural monitoring. Accordingly, the requirements for the type and scope of system-oriented logging are predominantly found in general data protection law, while procedural logging is often defined by sector-specific regulations. Examples of process-oriented logging are u. a. Meldegesetze, police laws, constitutional protection laws.



## Examples 
* System Generation and Modification of System Parameters Since no system-controlled protocols are usually generated at this level, correspondingly more detailed manual records should be used which should correspond to the system documentation.
* Setting up users From when to when by whom the right to use the IT system in question has to be completely logged. Longer term retention periods should be provided for these protocols since they are the basis of virtually every revision.
* Creation of rights profiles In the context of user management logging, it is particularly important to record who issued the instruction to set up specific user rights (see also M 2.31 Authorized User and Rights Profile Documentation).
* Importing and changing application software The protocols represent the result of program and process approvals.
* Changes to the file organization In view of the manifold possibilities of manipulation which already arise when using the standard file management systems, a complete logging is of particular importance (see eg B.Database management).
* Carrying out data protection measures Since such measures (backup, restore) are associated with the production of copies or the overwriting of data and are frequently carried out in exceptional situations, there is an increased need for logging.
* Other invocation of administration tools The use of all administration tools must be logged in order to be able to determine whether unauthorized persons have acquired system administrator rights.
* Attempts at Unauthorized Logging and Exceeding Authority Assuming an effective authentication procedure and appropriate authority assignments, the full logging of all suspected abnormalities when logging in and using hardware and software components is of central importance. User in this sense is also the system administrator.




