#M 2.325 Security policy planning for Windows clients as of Windows XP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

One of the most important organizational tasks of introducing Windows clients as of Windows XP is to plan and define a corresponding security policy. This policy sets forth the later security requirements for Windows systems.

The requirements defined in the Windows security policy are enforced by the appropriate security settings at the operating system level or by organizational measures. In cases where technical measures are not sufficient, a combination is necessary so that technical implementation is accompanied and supported by additional organizational measures. If possible, a technical solution should always be preferred over an organizational one.

The security policy to be created must be based on the previously applicable security guidelines of the organization and must not contradict this. Often, existing regulations for earlier Windows versions are adapted or extended accordingly. In particular, specific technologies of each new Windows version are to be considered. In general, the planning of the Windows infrastructure is based on the respective cross-border security policy, but has a feedback process that influences this overall security policy. Last but not least, legal regulations must be observed when creating the Windows security policy. The security policy for Windows clients must be documented and communicated to the users of the client-server network to the required extent. All administrators should know and implement them.

The following topics provide a rough overview of the areas of such a policy to be covered. Depending on the company or authority and the application scenarios to be implemented, further aspects must be considered.



## Examples 
* Changes in the safety parameters (local),
* Changes in the security parameters in the Active Directory,
* the administration of the systems in the Active Directory,
* the evaluation of the log data,
* the assignment of access rights and system authorizations,
* the release and the execution of configuration changes as well as the installation of software,
* the deposit and change of passwords and
* the execution of data backups and data restores.




