#M 2.2 Resource Management
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, Head of Organization

Equipment (or material) refers to all work equipment required to complete a task or business process. This includes, for example, all necessary tools, equipment and furniture. Resources for IT use are resources such as hardware components (calculator, keyboard, printer, etc.), software (system software, custom programs, standard programs and the like), consumables (paper, toner, printer cartridges), data carriers (Magnetb ,ders, hard disks, removable disks, CD-ROMs and the like). The resource management includes the execution of the tasks:

* Procurement of resources,
* Testing before use,
* Marking and
* Bestandsfhrung.


The procurement of equipment is of particular importance in the use of information technology. In particular, the objectives pursued by the use of information technology can be supported by a regulated procurement process: increased performance, cost-effectiveness, improvement of communication options.

In addition to pure cost-effectiveness aspects, a new procurement procedure - which can be carried out from a central point of view - can also take greater account of new and further developments in the field of information technology.

Central procurement also ensures the introduction and adherence to a house standard that simplifies employee training and maintenance activities.

A controlled test procedure before the use of the equipment avoids various dangers. Examples are:

* The completeness of deliveries (eg manuals or connecting cables) should be checked in order to ensure the availability of all delivered parts.
* New PC software as well as new pre-formatted data carriers should be tested with a computer virus search program.
* Test runs of new software should be performed on special test systems so that they can be put into operation smoothly.
* The compatibility of new hardware and software components with the existing ones should be checked before procurement, so that errors do not occur.


It is only with the help of an inventory of the equipment used that it is possible to determine the consumption and to arrange for re-orders that are necessary in due time. In addition, inventory management allows for completeness checks, verification of the use of unauthorized software, or detection of resource theft. This requires a clear identification of the essential equipment with unique identification features (eg grouped consecutive inventory numbers). In addition, the serial numbers of existing devices such as monitors, printers, hard drives, etc. should be documented so that they can be identified after a theft.

For inventory management, resources must be listed in inventories. Such an inventory must be able to provide information about:

* Identifiers,
* Procurement sources, delivery times,
* Whereabouts of resources,
* Storage provision,
* Hearing regulations and
* Maintenance contracts, maintenance intervals.


In order to prevent the misuse of data, the deletion or destruction of resources must be regulated. In particular, the handling of waste paper must be regulated. There must be suitable disposal options for consumables with higher protection requirements, eg. so-called shredders or shredders for paper. Everything else is described in block B 1.15 Erasing and destroying data.



