#M 2.257   Monitoring the storage resources of archive data
Responsible for initiation: archive administrator, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, archive administrator, IT manager

The available free space on the archive media must be continuously monitored. If the free storage capacity falls below a threshold to be set, the administrator should be notified and, if necessary, signaled to a system management environment. If the free storage capacity continues to fall below a critical limit value, an alarm should be triggered. When alerting, special care must be taken to ensure that it is role-based, that is, independent of specific persons. This ensures that even in the event of illness or leave alarms are perceived.

The threshold value, the critical limit value and the escalation procedures and routes must be defined in an organization-specific manner.

The limit values ??must be determined on the basis of the archive media used and the average volume of data to be archived. After the critical alarm has been triggered, it must be ensured that the average data volume can continue to be archived for a sufficient time. Typically, the threshold value is based on a residual capacity of 15% of the total capacity of the storage medium and a critical capacity of 10% for the critical limit value.

In order to bridge any supply bottlenecks in storage media, a sufficient number of empty archive media should be stored in a known location. The climatic and physical storage conditions must be observed (see M 1.60 Suitable storage of archive media).

For the case of alarms, it must be documented in which way and in what time period a reaction to the alarms should take place. This is z. B. in service level agreements (SLAs) if the operation of the archive system is carried out by third parties.

In addition to the storage space, operating system or application-specific restrictions may also have to be monitored. The corresponding program documentation must then be checked. In cases of doubt or in the documentation, the respective manufacturer should be consulted. For example, the maximum number of permitted files per directory or the maximum permitted database entries can be exceeded, so that no further data can be created on the storage medium.



