#M 2.285 Defining standards for z / OS system definitions
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Defining standards for the z / OS system definitions is one of the prerequisites for a well-functioning system management. Standards also support the implementation of security rules and their monitoring. The following recommendations should be noted:

Agreed z / OS system standards must be comprehensibly documented. The documentation must be available to the administrators.

Compliance with z / OS system standards should be checked on a regular basis.

It should be considered to agree on a standardization for the following objects:

* Account number in jobs and for USER or STCs
* ACS routines
* Allokierungs rules
* Application ID (IMS)
* Assembler standards
* User group Kennzeichenz. Network administration, development, testing, production and DB administration
* COBOL compiler options
* Command-Character (Console)
* Command character (terminal)
* Coupling Facility Name
* Files to be applied should be cataloged
* File Namenevtl. with distinguishing features for system, development and production. The last qualifier usually defines the file type. Labeling of target and DLIB files
* Database name
* DFSMS DATA-CLASS, STORAGE-CLASS, MANAGEMENT-CLASS, STORAGE-GROUP, LLC-Mappings
* IMS ID
* IMS-start procedures
* Initiator classes
* ISMF protection provisions
* JES2Job classes, initiator, parameters
* JOBCAT and STEPCAT should not be used (IBM announced in August 2004 to discontinue support for JOBCAT and STEPCAT as of z / OS 1.7).
* Job name Possibly. with distinguishing features for development and production
* Catalog name
* Login procedures names
* Member name Possibly. with distinguishing features for development and production
* Output classes
* PAGE datasets
* Parmlib member for JESx
* Procedures names
* RACF resource classes
* SMF assignment (System Management Facility)
* SMP / E file names
* SMP / E environments for different subsystems
* SMP / E zones datasets
* SMP / E zone name
* SMS file names
* SSID (Sub-System ID)
* Location tag avoidance Location tags have not necessarily been beneficial in the context of restructuring and relocation
* STC names (Started Tasks)
* STEPCAT should not be used
* SVC assignment
* Sysplex ID
* System files names
* System ID (with sysplex identifier)
* Table space names
* TSO logon procedures
* UNIT classes
* USER ID
* USERMODs
* Volume names (system volumes, application volumes)


Depending on the subsystems, database systems, software products and applications used, this list can be supplemented by additional objects.



