#M 2.258 Consistent indexing of documents during archiving
Responsible for initiation: archive administrator, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, archive administrator, IT manager

When operating an archive, it is important to be able to clearly reference all stored documents and data records in order to be able to find them correctly in later archive requests. In addition, archive systems offer the possibility of search queries. Since a full-text search can take a long time, depending on the type and extent of the archived data, archive systems store a separate record with index information in a separate search database for each document. The structure and scope of the index specifications are typically configurable and should have the following characteristics:

* Unambiguity: The document identifiers must be unique.
* Support for expected search queries: The contextual information should speed up later search queries. Since the later search context is not fixed, only an estimate of later searches can be made in advance and an attempt can be made to make the context information as meaningful as possible.
* Small scale: A small amount of index data speeds up later searches, but too little index data can hinder search queries or make it difficult to find documents. The scope of the contextual information should ultimately be determined as a function of the expected volume of data.


These parameters must always be set before the archive is started up. Nevertheless, over time, it may become necessary to change the properties. Depending on the size and nature of the index data change, this may require a very time-consuming re-indexing of the archive dataset.

The concrete context for individual documents to be archived can be generated in different ways. Three methods are distinguished:

* Manual creation: At the level of the document management system, index information for each document is generated manually via an input mask. As a result, especially with large amounts of data, there is a risk that inconsistent index information will be recorded.
* Semiautomatic Generation: These procedures automate the assignment of index data, but allow manual control and correction.
* Fully automatic generation: Document indices are assigned fully automatically without manual intervention.


The choice of method depends on the expected data volume. If individual documents are archived at irregular intervals, a manual procedure on the basis of concrete specifications for creating a context is sufficient.

If large amounts of data are regularly archived, a semi-automatic method for generating the index data should be selected. Here it is possible to manually check and correct this information before document and document index are archived and then, if necessary, can no longer be subsequently changed.

With the fully automatic generation of the index data, errors can not be detected or corrected. A possible misallocation of documents to be archived, eg. to business processes, then can not be recognized or excluded. This procedure should therefore only be used if all documents are structured in such a way that all index data can in any case be extracted without doubt and reliably.



