#M 2.578 Installation, configuration and support of a local network by third parties
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

If a LAN is to be installed, configured or maintained by an external contractor, then in addition to the recommendations in module B 1.11 Outsourcing, the following points must be observed:

* It must always be checked whether a LAN installation can not be carried out by oneself. A feasibility and cost audit should be carried out for this purpose.
* The LAN security policy should always be created by yourself and not by third parties. This prevents that no one in the institution deals with the security aspects of LANs in detail and therefore any necessary security measures are forgotten. However, it makes sense to use consultations and assistance from third parties to create a LAN security policy if there are no internal resources available for this purpose.
* When assigning installation, configuration and support of a local network, the IT Security Officer must be involved. It is to create a detailed specification. It must define all the minimum requirements for the LAN components.
* The contractor must be presented with the LAN security guideline. He must be contractually obliged to comply with them and implement them. This must be checked regularly during the implementation of the contractually agreed services in order to identify possible problems early on. The safety guideline should be an integral part of the specification.
* The contractor should have extensive and preferably long-standing experience in setting up and securing a LAN. Corresponding references must be submitted and at least randomly tested.
* The Contractor must be contractually obliged not to disclose the configuration of the LAN components, passwords, connection keys and access codes and mechanisms to unauthorized persons. Likewise, the contractor should be required not to cache the information and data that may become known through the creation of a LAN, or to pass it on to unauthorized persons.
* Before the installation of a LAN by the contractor, appropriate tests must be carried out. All planned security settings should be thoroughly tested.
* During the installation, configuration and maintenance of a local network by a contractor, care should be taken that no backdoors are built into the LAN by the contractor. All settings and configurations must be documented in detail by the contractor and must be completely handed over to the customer upon completion of the installation.
* After completion of a LAN installation, a check should be made on the basis of the service specification. In addition, the application documents drawn up in the specifications after the award can serve as the basis for the audit, since procedures for acceptance measurements, for example, can be specified here.
* The acceptance of a LAN installation should be done with the help of an independent expert to have the technical details checked. In this case, the IT security officer should also be involved.
* As a main focus, the documentation should also be checked for completeness and any inconsistencies.
* If the LAN is also to be supervised by an external contractor after installation, the contractor must be contractually obligated not to pass on any information known here, such as passwords, sensitive data, configuration settings, etc., to unauthorized persons. Similarly, an emergency preparedness plan (see also M 6.165 Creating an Emergency Plan for Local Area Network Failure) should be prepared with the contractor. In this case, the severity level, the reaction time, the respective work steps and who should be informed in case of an emergency should be precisely defined for each problem that might occur in the LAN.




