#M 2.340 Compliance with legal framework
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: administration / management, head of organization, supervisors

When processing information, a large number of legal or contractual conditions must be observed. These vary greatly depending on the type of institution, the industry and the business processes.

Typical areas of information processing that are subject to special legal regulations are:

* Protection of personal data,
* Use of cryptographic methods,
* Protection of intellectual property,
* proper operation of IT systems.


Depending on the country in which the information is processed and its specific purpose, there may be a variety of other legal regulations. To name these individually would go beyond the scope of the IT-Grundschutz catalogs. In various areas of IT-Grundschutz, country or sector-specific laws are addressed, such as: on cryptography, outsourcing or archiving. Due to the large number of possible legal framework conditions, these are only examples without any claim to completeness or actuality.

All legal, contractual and other requirements that must be observed for the business processes and information processing, the operation of IT systems and the associated physical infrastructure must be identified and documented. It should be noted that legal regulations often differ at state and regional level. As a consequence, the relevant laws must be adhered to for each location. It should also be borne in mind that various regulations may apply depending on the nature of the business processes and the intended use of the IT systems (eg office environment, process control).

In particular must

* all applied operational practices and procedures,
* all information processed in the course of business activities,
* all installed IT systems (hardware and software) as well as
* The physical infrastructure required to operate the business processes and IT systems


comply with the applicable legal regulations. All changes to legal requirements must be recorded and the changes relevant to the institution must be taken into account.

Managers, who have the legal responsibility for the local institution, must ensure the identification and documentation of the applicable legislation. This should be a lawyer or legal expert to be commissioned. If the necessary knowledge or resources are not available within the institution, external legal advice should be sought. Since not all employees need to know all the laws and regulations, the legal and contractual requirements that are relevant for the individual areas of the institution should be identified. In order to monitor compliance, responsible persons can be named in the individual areas. For example, the company data protection officer is responsible for ensuring that the relevant data protection regulations are adhered to and for the creation and adherence to an institution-wide rule for the protection of personal data. The IT management must provide for the definition and documentation of the license management.

Of course, each individual employee and, in particular, the executive staff is responsible for the implementation of the regulations on legal aspects and for the monitoring of compliance (see also M 3.2 Obligation of employees to comply with relevant laws, Regulations and regulations).



