#M 2.554 Appropriate contracting in procurement, development and operation support for applications
Responsible for initiation: Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible

In the case of procurement, development or operation of an application, an institution may subscribe to one or more service providers. These can be internal or external service providers. Typically, at least three parties have to be distinguished: the later users, developers and operators of the application. If the application is developed or operated by external parties, suitable contractual framework conditions must be created.

The implementation of the safety and security characteristics of an application specified in the specifications and functional specifications as well as in the sub-concepts must be contractually agreed with the participating institutions and service providers.

From a security point of view, the following aspects in particular should be taken into consideration:

* The scope of delivery and / or service (functional scope including safety functions, provision format, license type, documentation, manual etc.) must be suitably described.
* Agreements must be made about software maintenance (see M 2.553 Development of a care concept for applications). In the case of developments on assignment, suitable usage rights must be agreed for the generated source code and access to it (see also M 6.137 Fiduciary Deposit (Escrow)).


When operating an application by a service provider, the measures from module B 1.11 Outsourcing must be taken into account.

The supplementary terms and conditions for the procurement of information technology (EVB-IT) are legally stipulated in the public administration in Germany (see also Abs 9 (1) sentence 2 and   11 EC (1) sentence 2 VOL / A and BH 55 BHO). These contain contract templates for the development as well as the operation of an application by a service provider.



