#M 2.544 Auditing with cloud usage
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

The conduct of audits is considered a necessary measure in connection with the use of cloud services. Practical experience has shown that the user institution can often make deviations from contractual agreements, such as non-compliance with certain service levels or the failure to comply with security specifications transparent, only in the context of audits.

Since auditing in the cloud usage environment is so important, audits should be addressed in different phases of cloud usage:

* When selecting the provider with regard to the general provision of an audit right.
* When drafting the contract with the cloud service provider regarding the design of the audit right.
* When establishing measures for the regular conduct of audits in the cloud usage mode.


The using institution should regularly check the implementation of the security measures agreed with the cloud service provider. For this purpose, specially prepared questionnaires are also available for carrying out the audits.



## Examples 
* Has the institution contractually guaranteed the right to conduct audits?
* Is the implementation of the security measures agreed with the cloud service provider regularly checked in the form of audits or by responding to questionnaires?
* Are the peculiarities of the service models IaaS, PaaS and SaaS taken into account in the planning and execution of audits?




