#M 2.518 Use of a high-availability firewall solution
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

The resilience of the cloud infrastructure must be ensured. When high or very high demands are placed on the availability of security gateways, redundancies should be established in terms of physical resources and network connectivity, or networking of cloud infrastructure components.

A security gateway should always be the only interface between the external and the protected network. On the one hand, the security gateway represents a potential bottleneck in terms of data throughput and, on the other hand, a possible security vulnerability for the entire network traffic of an organization. In principle, security gateways to the cloud infrastructure can be designed in the same way as traditional corporate network safeguards. that is, by means of separate physical and clustered hardware. Alternatively, cloud service providers can also use their virtual IT infrastructure and operate the security gateway as a network-encapsulated virtual machine (for example, PERVLAN-separated), whereby a risk analysis must be carried out for this purpose.

The most important components of a security gateway should be redundant. These are above all the components that are used to transmit information. This category typically includes routers, packet filters, Application Level Gateway, and possibly VPN components. For other components (eg virus scanners or intrusion detection systems), the importance for the safety of the network to be protected must be considered on a case-by-case basis.

There are several ways to increase the availability of security gateway components. Hot-standby systems or systems with clustered systems can allow dynamic parallel operation of firewalls. This can be. For example, a high-availability solution (often HA solution, high availability) can be achieved. Here, the availability of components of the security gateway is monitored and in the event of a failure, the replacement systems automatically take over operation. Constant monitoring of the HA components is just as important as a functioning failover in case of need. In addition, a sufficient load distribution (English load balancing) must be taken care of, which prevents that individual systems or feeder lines are overloaded with the transmission of data packets.

Other requirements for high-availability solutions and highly available secure gateways are the M 2.302 security gateways and high availability measures, which must be used and implemented.



