#M 2.521 Regulated provisioning and de-provisioning of cloud services
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

The elasticity in cloud computing enables a timely provision of cloud resources for cloud users. This requires a regulated provisioning and de-provisioning of cloud services.

Provisioning is the assignment of a cloud service to a cloud user and the associated provision of the necessary cloud resources and their configuration. Cloud resources include CPU, memory, storage, virtual networks, and so on. Provisioning is done through templates that provide information about cloud resources and configurations. The templates are called cloud service profiles.

De-provisioning, the provisioning component, refers to the cancellation of the allocation of cloud resources of a given cloud service to a particular tenant (cloud user). Provisioning is at the beginning of the use of a cloud service by a cloud user, de-provisioning at the end.

Defined processes and work processes must be established and maintained for all phases of the administration of a cloud service. For a regulated provisioning and deprovisioning of cloud services, a process must be deposited and documented with responsible persons who must take into account the entire life cycle of a cloud service.

The process of provisioning and deprovisioning cloud services is based on the following phases:



## Examples 
* Have people responsible for provisioning and deprovisioning cloud services been defined and sufficiently communicated?
* Are the manual steps of cloud administrators documented for the provisioning of cloud services?
* Is cloud service planning geared to the needs of cloud users?
* Are automatically provisioned cloud services checked in the correct implementation and understood the requirements of the configuration of the cloud services?
* How do you ensure that the associated resources and permissions are revoked after a cloud service is stopped?
* Does the planning move to reference architectures for the cloud services that reflect the requirements?




