#M 2.495 Separation of Lotus Notes / Domino components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

In the life cycle of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment, the phase of the separation must also be taken into account. As a rule, no substitution takes place, as the business processes supported by Lotus Notes / Domino do not change so much that services such as e-mail, web services, etc. disappear without substitution. Thus, a separation will take place only when using a new product, so that is usually migrated to a new groupware or collaboration solution.

The exclusion without migration aspects therefore usually affects individual components of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment (or infrastructure components and the Lotus Notes / Domino components).

When a component is rejected, all references to the rejected component (eg cross certificates) in the remaining environment must be deleted and the inventory lists or databases must be adapted accordingly. Reuse of such a reference by an attacker, e.g. By incorporating a component or system with the identity of the separated component is thereby prevented. Licensing and license management are to be checked and adjusted if necessary.

Analogous to the references of the discrete component in the remaining Lotus Notes / Domino environment, the component's data and references are at the operating system, network, monitoring, and security components (security gateways, IDS, content security appliances, SIEM platforms, components for protection against malware, components for network monitoring). This is no longer necessary if the rejected component is replaced by a new component with the same identity in the Lotus Notes / Domino network. For example, in the case of a 1: 1 transmission of a Domino server to a higher-performance hardware.

After a successful migration, before the physical disposal of the segregated Lotus Notes / Domino infrastructure, the B 1.15 block will delete and destroy data. The same applies to infrastructure that is reused for other purposes (eg as a development server).

It must be taken into consideration that the archived data must continue to be kept even after the separation of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment and access to this data with reasonable effort and adherence to appropriate deadlines (these can be found in the archiving concept). is possible. Therefore, appropriate resources (hardware, software, licenses) must be provided.



