#M 2.205 Transmission and retrieval of personal data
Responsible for Initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Data Protection Officer, Head of IT

If a transfer of personal data from the location of the work or client to a remote workstation (eg a teleworker), the data protection regulations must be observed. According to §9BDSG, in such cases, in particular, it must be ensured that unauthorized persons use IT systems (user control) with the aid of data transmission facilities. It must also be ensured that it is possible to check and determine to which places personal data can be transmitted by means of data transmission (transmission control).

The means of transport or the method of transmission should be selected in such a way that both the confidentiality and integrity as well as the authenticity (proof of origin) of the personal data can be guaranteed.

If the transfer of personal data takes place within the framework of an automated retrieval procedure, the special admissibility requirements in the relevant laws must be observed:



## Examples 
* The cause and purpose and the parties involved in the call procedure must be defined.
* Polling permissions are to be set and controlled.
* The nature and extent of the data held must be specified.
* Locking and deletion periods for data must be defined.
* It is necessary to specify in which cases the storing body is to be informed by the collecting body.
* The transport route is to be determined, for. B. Access over IRISDN, secured via callback based on CLIP or COLP (see M 5.49 Callback based on CLIP / COLP).
* Appropriate cryptographic techniques (eg symmetric and asymmetric encryption, digital signature) should be used to prevent data protection breaches when transporting sensitive data. How to select appropriate methods and products is described in block B 1.7 Crypto concept.
* If personal data are regularly or permanently exchanged via a transport route, the transmission should be secured by means of a virtual private network (VPN) (see M 5.76 Using suitable tunnel protocols for VPN communication and M 5.83 Secure connection of an external network with Linux FreeS / WAN




