#M 2.555 Development of an authentication concept for applications
Responsible for initiation: specialist responsible, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer, IT manager

As part of designing a new application, it's important to understand how users authenticate themselves before accessing the data processed with the application. In the authentication concept, it must be determined whether the application should have any authentication mechanisms at all (in the case of broadcast communication software, this is not ordinarily, since the authorization is regulated at the level of the processed documents). If this is intended, it must be determined whether the application has independent user management or whether the authentication is to be carried out via a central directory service (see module B 5.15 General directory service). If a directory service can be used, it should be clarified whether a single sign-on (SSO) is provided.

In principle, the connection of self-developed authentication to a directory service or SSO service should be preferred. If this is not possible, it should always be ensured that authentication information (credentials, passwords etc.) can be entered concealedly and not unsecured (ie encrypted) on data carriers such as hard disks or via communication networks Be transferred (see M 2.11 control of password usage).

Other aspects considered in the concept can be:

* Defaults for a login banner: For example, it makes sense to display the last login time and usage hints when logging in. On the other hand, login banners should not contain too much information, especially none that could provide attackers with starting points, such as: Network addresses or type and version of the software used.
* Handling parallel sessions of a user in the application (if so, how many are allowed)
* Protection of the authentication information: It must be specified how the storage and transmission of the authentication information is cryptographically secured.
* Time-controlled forced disconnection when the user is inactive, as well as suitable information (message window) when automatic disconnection and log-off have been carried out


In addition, the intended nature and strength of the authentication mechanisms should be described. In particular, the criteria mentioned in M 4.133 Suitable Selection of Authentication Mechanisms are to be considered:

* Type and combination of techniques used or factors for authentication (knowledge, possession, biometric features)
* Strength of the factors used (for knowledge factor, see also M 2.11 Control of password usage)




