#M 2.570 Selection of a process model for software development
Responsible for initiation: Head of Development

Responsible for implementation: Head of Development

For a well-regulated process of the entire development process, it is of fundamental importance to select a suitable process model for software development. All people involved in the process can be better informed and coordinated if the methodology is applied stringently.

Depending on the scope and requirements of the software to be developed, a procedure model should be selected that takes sufficient account of all aspects of the development process. For example, the spiral model should be preferred over the waterfall model if it is clear at the beginning of the process that functional requirements for the software are still frequently changed during development.

Some procedural models provide a rather rigid framework and are only suitable for projects whose requirements are clearly established and are not expected to change significantly during the course of the project. Other process models support dynamic and agile software development and, with multiple iterations over all development phases, allow flexible adaptation of the project's course to changing requirements.

Established process models for software development include:

* Waterfall modelDevelopment is divided into clearly defined phases, which are consecutively traversed. It starts with the requirements analysis that follows the system design. Then the actual software is programmed and tested modular. Finally, the integration and system test is followed by the delivery and maintenance of the software for the production system.
* Spiral ModelThis generic procedure model is a further development of the waterfall model and regards software development as an iterative process whose cycles are run through several times. Each cycle is divided into four quadrants. First, the goals and framework conditions are set. Thereafter, alternatives are evaluated and risks assessed. Then a fixed intermediate goal is realized and checked. Finally, the next cycle is planned for the sequel.
* General V-ModellThe V-Modell is based on the waterfall model and defines the development process as well as the quality assurance of the software in phases, by comparing each design stage with a test stage. Number and name of the phases are flexible.
* V-Modell XT Based on the V-Modell, the public administration in the Federal Republic of Germany has defined the V-Modell XT as a development standard. The V-Modell XT defines activities and results whose timing is flexible. The activities can, for example, also be mapped to the waterfall model.
* Prototyping During prototyping, software development focuses on rapidly providing prototypes whose functionality is then gradually defined and optimized step by step in cooperation with contractors and clients.
* MDSD (Model-Driven Software Development) In model-driven development, software is automatically generated from formal models that are created using modeling languages ??or graphical modeling tools. The functionality of the desired system can be defined on an abstract level.
* TDD (Test-Driven Development) In this process model, a software test is always created first, before the actual software is generated. After the test cases (so-called gray box tests) have been completed, the actual program code is created with the least possible effort and, if necessary, adapted to the tests. Test cases can be generated for individual modules (unit tests) as well as for a complete system (system test).


There are many other procedural models for software development. In addition, ISO 12207 and 13407 standards are concerned with software development and the prototypical user-oriented production of software.

The decision for a process model has to be documented and a corresponding process plan has to be created for the project, which contains all implementation steps and the respective responsible persons. On the basis of the selected procedure model, an internal software development guideline must be created. It is also necessary to specify

* how to take into account the institution - wide security policy, legal requirements and specific security requirements during system development; and
* as in the specific development phases requirement analysis, design and implementation, test and roll-out the safety considerations are to be carried out.


The staff should be trained in the methodology of the chosen procedure model. The software development policy should be periodically reviewed and kept up to date. Compliance with the policy is to be tested at all key points of software development.

If the methodology of the once selected procedure model is to be replaced by a different procedure, this can lead to an increased development effort during the changeover phase. For this reason, the selection of the procedure model must be carried out as carefully as possible.



