#M 2.509 Data protection law release
Responsible for initiation: administration / management, data protection officer

Responsible for implementation: administration / company management

Software and IT processes are to be checked with systematically developed case constellations (test data, no personal real data) according to a test plan, from which the desired result is obtained (see also M 2.83 Testing of standard software). Bulk tests may, if required, be carried out with the consent and specifications of the competent authority with anonymous original data. The approval of the responsible body for the anonymisation of original data and all test results must be documented in a revision-proof manner.

Tests with a copy of the required, non-anonymised original data (personal data) are only permitted if

* another legislation expressly permits this or
* in exceptional cases, despite replication in the test area, an error from the production operation can not be determined, but can only be explained with original data, or the process reliability can not be guaranteed otherwise,
* a sector-specific legislation does not expressly prohibit
* Anonymization of the original data for the intended test constellation would only be associated with an unreasonably high outlay.
* the responsible department has approved the procedure in writing,
* in carrying out or evaluating the test, the interests of the data subject and the security of information are taken into due consideration,
* It is ensured that only those persons required to troubleshoot and perform the test can use the data and
* Access to this data will only be granted to persons who are subject to the relevant confidentiality principles and in particular data protection regulations.


The responsible or operational data protection officer or any other responsible body must be informed in good time before the planned tests with original data.

The copy access to the original data is to be logged. After completion of the test, the used copy of the original data must be immediately deleted from the test area or anonymised in the test area. The use of original data copies must be documented in an audit-proof manner with reasons, justification, scope and duration, the security measures taken and the preceding tests with test data.

It must be regulated how IT procedures can be accepted, released, recorded or used. On the measures M 2.62 Software acceptance and release procedure. Module B 1.10 standard software is referenced.

The release of IT procedures with the processing of personal data requires a check also from a data protection point of view. The prior involvement of the country commissioner for data protection is prescribed in some state data protection laws.



