#M 2.500 Logging of IT systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Security related activities on information processing systems should be logged for many reasons. On the one hand, activated logging helps to identify potential weaknesses early on and thus eliminate them. On the other hand, logging can help detect security breaches or investigate a security incident. For this, events are recorded that occur on the IT systems to be considered.

Each institution should establish general rules on how to log IT systems, networks or applications. These must then be adapted and implemented accordingly to the specific systems. In various components of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs for IT systems, networks or applications, in-depth information can be found on what has to be observed when logging on the respective IT systems, for example in M 4.302 Logging for printers, copiers and multifunction devices. The topic of logging is described in detail in block B 5.22 Logging. The module considers all specific hazards and measures that are relevant for logging and monitoring, regardless of the operating system used.

The effort to create and implement such a process is not small. Therefore, this module should be implemented especially for larger information networks and should be centrally logged in an information network. For smaller and less complex information networks, the implementation of this measure is generally sufficient.

First of all, a logging concept for the institution should be drawn up. It regulates how, where and what should be logged with what protection needs. In general, every logon under administrative rights should always result in an entry in the log. What should be done with the logged events must also be part of the concept and is described in M 4.431 Selection and processing of relevant information for logging. In the following aspects are presented, which should be considered in the conception.



## Examples 
* Identification of the IT systems It must be decided which IT systems, networks or applications are to be taken into account in the logging concept. In general, the security-relevant events should be logged and evaluated by all IT systems. These include:
* Clients, including mobile IT devices
* server
* Network couplers (routers and switches)
* Databases for important business processes
* PBX systems and
* Security gateways If you want to log centrally, the IT systems to be logged must support this. As a rule, an agent or another application must be installed on the IT system to be logged. This application receives the events on the respective IT systems and sends the data directly to the central logging server.
* Selection of security-relevant events: Basically, all security-relevant incidents should be logged within an information network. For example, you should pay particular attention to the following events:
* Rejected access attempts to user identifiers, eg. Because of incorrect password entries,
* Blocking of user identifiers,
* Registrations of users or administrators at unusual times of day,
* Failure or malfunction of the hardware,
* Malfunctions or overloads of applications, such. For example due to lack of storage space or aborted important processes,
* Data on network utilization and congestion,
* Information or warning messages from intrusion detection systems, as well
* Accesses to active network components (who has logged in when and when?) Which events should be logged in total depends, among other things, on the protection requirements of the respective IT systems and must therefore be coordinated and defined in advance in the institution.
* Centralization It is recommended to combine all logged data in one place. In the case of local logging, these can be individual directories so that the log files can be clearly stored in one place and quickly retrieved. In the case of central logging, the events that have occurred should be transmitted via a secure channel to a central server and then stored in a database.
* Normalization The summarized, different messages can be normalized for later evaluation as there is no uniform standard for format and transmission protocol. The normalization allows the different protocol formats, such as Syslog, MS Eventlog, SNMP, Netflow or IPFIX, to be adapted to one another. The different data formats are thus converted into a uniform format and can then be evaluated.
* FilteringBy suitable filtering of the log data, depending on the intended use, irrelevant data can be eliminated as early as possible and thus excluded from further processing. The informative contents are separated from the security-relevant messages, after which further steps are taken.
* AggregationAt aggregation, the logged events with redundant content can be combined into one data record. Often identical log messages are generated several times in succession by the same IT system, so it is often sufficient to process only the first event. If redundant events occur, the number of events that have occurred should be saved in order to subsequently determine how frequently the identical log messages occurred.
* Categorization and prioritizationIn particular for centralized logging, the logged events can be categorized and prioritized. As a result, the information content of the message can be refined even more.
* Correlation Within an information network, the different IT systems, such as security gateways, servers and clients, have only a limited view of their respective function. To eliminate this problem, the corresponding log data can be correlated. For example, security gateway protocol data and router protocol entries can be connected.
* Evaluation and checkingOnly if the logged events are regularly evaluated and checked, any safety gaps, manipulation attempts and irregularities can be detected. In addition to security events and errors, an analysis also displays information about the current workload. The logging of security-relevant events is only effective as a security measure if the logged data is evaluated by an auditor at regular intervals, ie by one person that does not administer the respective systems. If it is not possible, either personally or technically, to fill the role of an independent auditor for log files, it can also be evaluated by an administrator. As far as possible, however, this should not be the administrator who is responsible for the operation of the respective systems, otherwise it would be difficult to control the administrative work. If extensive log files need to be evaluated regularly, it makes sense to use evaluation tools, such as graphical user interfaces or report generators. These tools should allow selectable evaluation criteria and highlight particularly critical entries (eg multiple failed logon attempts). More detailed information on the evaluation can be found in M 2.64 Control of the log files.
* Alarming If certain events that were previously defined as critical occur or if thresholds are exceeded, an alarm should be triggered, for example, by e-mail or SMS. In order to be able to carry out a meaningful alarm, it is important to reduce the number of false alarms. For this purpose, threshold values ??must be set realistically and adapted to the conditions of the information network.
* Archiving It must be checked which legal or contractual retention periods apply to log files. In order to ensure the traceability of actions, a minimum storage period may be prescribed, for data protection reasons there may also be deletion obligations (see also M 2.110 Data protection aspects during logging). If log data is archived, the recommendations of B 1.12 Archiving must be taken into account.




