#M 2.490 Planning the use of virtualization with Hyper-V
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible, IT manager

Microsoft provides with Hyper-V its own hypervisor-based virtualization solution. When using Hyper-V, B 3.304 virtualization must be applied to the server. Depending on the configuration of the virtual infrastructure, quite extensive dependencies in the modeling can arise. In addition to the virtualized servers (the guests), a virtual network infrastructure as well as possibly active virtual network components will be set up.

In addition to the frameworks covered in the virtualization building block, system-specific decisions must be made when planning a Hyper-V based virtualization.

Hyper-V is installed as a role in Windows Server 2008. After installation, the operating system itself runs under the hypervisor as a virtual machine. It degrades itself to a pure management console and acts as resource management for the other virtual machines.

Particular attention should be given to the protection requirements of the guest systems when planning for Hyper-V. The protection requirements for the host system and the management instance of Windows Server 2008 are determined according to the maximum and accumulation principle from the protection requirement of the guests. After adding more guest systems, it may be necessary to later adjust the protection requirements of a host system. If future extensions are already foreseen in the planning phase, they should therefore be taken into account accordingly.

Certain features can not be changed at a later stage, or only with great effort, and must be taken into account at the planning stage. In particular, this includes the installation as a server core (see M 4.416 Deployment of Windows Server Core), which offers itself with increased protection requirements to reduce the attack surface.

The installation as Server Core should only be waived if foreseeable no increased protection requirements are imposed on the guest systems. The disadvantages of missing user interfaces are often outweighed by the benefits of lower resource consumption, less need for patches, lower attack surfaces, and remote management tools for Hyper-V.

As an alternative to the installation as Server Core also the installation of the Hyper-V Server 2008 R2 is possible. This option is a limited version of Server Core that supports only the Hyper-V role and has a modified license model without built-in guest licenses

Since a Hyper-V server can map an entire infrastructure including a network, differentiated roles should be defined for the administration so that individual administrators do not receive too many rights. M 5.153 Planning the network for virtual infrastructures, for example, describes the separation of network segments on virtualized systems. An administrator of a guest, who can change the connection of the virtual network cards, is able to override network disconnection mechanisms (see G 3.99 Faulty network connections of a virtualization server). This can be avoided by properly planning the administration roles, where Hyper-V roles reflect the existing permissions on the physical resources (SAN, network connections).

For the implementation of the administration roles under Hyper-V, Microsoft offers the Authorization Manager (Authorization Manager or azman.msc) introduced as of Windows Server 2003. This tool can be used to define roles through the combination of operations (eg assignment of external Ethernet ports) and areas (eg groups of guest systems). The roles should already be determined in the planning phase.

For the virtual infrastructure, an integrated backup concept must be developed that takes into account the system-specific aspects of Hyper-V. Hyper-V uses the Hyper-V VSS Writer (Volume Shadow Copy Service) to provide its own backup mechanism that also secures guest metadata. However, the use requires compatibility with the backup software used.



