#M 2.140 Analysis of the current network situation
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

This measure builds on the results of the actual recording according to M 2.139 actual recording of the current network situation and requires special knowledge in the area of ??network design and network construction as well as the analysis of network-specific vulnerabilities. In addition, experience in assessing the individual IT applications used with regard to confidentiality, integrity and availability is necessary. As this is a complex area that requires a lot of time as well as in-depth knowledge in all these areas, it can be helpful to consult external consultants to analyze the current network situation. In the area of ??the German Federal Administration, the Federal Office for Information Security (BSI) can provide assurances.

An analysis of the current network situation essentially consists of a structural analysis, a determination of protection requirements and a weak point analysis.

A structural analysis consists of an analysis of the documentation based on M 2.139 actual recording of the current network situation. The structural analysis must be carried out by an analysis team that is capable of understanding or deriving all possible communication relationships. As a result, the analysis team must understand the functioning of the network and be informed about the basic communication options. Frequently, conceptual weaknesses of the network can already be identified in the structural analysis.

A successful structural analysis is an essential prerequisite for the subsequent detailed determination of protection requirements or weak point analysis.



## Examples 
* Is it documented in which network segments which security requirements exist?
* Are the vulnerabilities of the network analyzed, defined and assigned to the individual network areas in terms of security requirements?




