#M 2.384 Selection of suitable crypto methods for WLAN
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

In order to ensure the secure operation of a WLAN, it is necessary to completely secure the communication via the air interface. Without sufficient encryption, there is a risk that unauthorized persons may read data transmitted over the WLAN. Likewise, an insufficiently protected WLAN offers a point of attack on a possibly connected LAN. In addition, the integrity of the data must be ensured so that manipulation of this data can be detected. Likewise, a (mutual) authentication of the WLAN components among each other is important.

The WLAN standards IEEE 802.11 and 802.11i describe various crypto methods that can be used to secure a WLAN. These are to be selected and applied depending on the field of application, protection requirements and size of the institution.



## Examples 
* EAP-TLSEAP-TLS, defined in RFC 2716, performs two-way authentication using X.509 certificates. To do so, the partner to be authenticated must prove that he knows the private key associated with the public key known to his communication partner. Consequently, procedures must be established that can distribute and manage appropriate certificates. Setting up and operating such a Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) requires careful planning (see, for example, M 2.232 Planning of the Windows CA Structure as of Windows 2000). The key exchange itself takes place via a tunnel secured by TLS.
* EAP-TTLSEAP-TTLS, unlike EAP-TLS, does not require the WLAN client to have its own certificate. Only the server requires a valid certificate for EAP-TTLS. The tunnel secured by TLS can then be used for other, possibly less secure, client or user authentication procedures. EAP-TTLS, like EAP-TLS, is a key-generating process; H. During communication, a new session key is generated each time, which is then used to secure the tunnel using TLS.
* EAP-PEAPAlso EAP-PEAP is a key-generating process and requires, similar to EAP-TTLS, only the authentication server a valid X.509 certificate. In contrast to EAP-TTLS, only other EAP methods are possible for client authentication in the secure tunnel, such as: EAP-MSCHAPv2 or EAP-TLS. The combination with EAP-MSCHAPv2 is interesting for networks, which mainly use Windows 2000 or Windows XP as a client operating system, this method is already included here.




