#M 2.380 exemptions
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, Supervisor

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, supervisor

In individual cases it may be useful and necessary to allow exemptions from the rules in a security policy. Although exceptions should be avoided as much as possible, it is in any case better to allow an exception than to adamantly insist on specifications that can not be met in a specific case. Should exceptions be raised, this is a sign that the existing security requirements must be considered and possibly adjusted.

Exceptions must always be approved by an authorized body. The licensing procedure involves both specialists and owners of information and applications, as well as safety management. For all exceptions, it must be thoroughly checked whether they do not undermine the security requirements. For this a risk assessment has to be carried out. Exceptions may only be approved if the identified risk was considered acceptable.

Exemptions should be clearly limited in time. It has to be checked on a regular basis (every 12 months at the latest), whether the exemptions are still required and whether time-limited exemptions have been revoked or extended on expiry.

Subsequently, a written justification has to be written and signed by the responsible persons.

A documented procedure should exist for granting exemptions. At least the following should be documented:

* Justification why a deviation from the safety requirements is necessary and which regulation is affected,
* Description of the design of the exemptions as well as a description of the effects and delineation of the affected area, including the risk assessment,
* Time of establishment,
* Applicant and approver,
* Period of time limits.


Deviations from the applicable safety regulations must be notified to all affected employees.



