#M 2.430 Security policies and regulations for information protection on the move
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: user, IT security officer

Not only within the premises of an institution must information be adequately protected, which of course is also required outside. Employees must handle sensitive information in business or private travel with care.

A security policy should be established that describes what employees must attend to when traveling on business or private trips. This can also be integrated in the guideline for the secure use of mobile IT systems (see M 2.309 Security Guidelines and Regulations for Mobile IT Use). In addition, a short and clear leaflet for the correct behavior on the way should be prepared for the employees.



## Examples 
* Employees must inform themselves before traveling about the security situation, customs and laws of the travel destination. Here, for example, the country and travel information of the German Foreign Office are helpful.
* When traveling, it is best not to carry sensitive information that is not required. If this is necessary, they should be carried in hand luggage. The luggage should never be left unattended.
* Sensitive information should not be left unattended in hotel rooms, meeting rooms or outside offices. Locking the device in a closet obstructs occasional thieves. However, high-security information should not be stored in an in-house safe.
* Only secure connections should be used for communication with your own institution and business partners. Since e-mails as well as landline and mobile phones could be monitored, communication should be secured with end-to-end encryption as much as possible when high-security information is passed on. Caution is also to be taken with external fax connections, since the documents to be transmitted can be stored on the fax machine and later printed out, ie copied.
* Employees should become suspicious if they feel that they are unusually stressed on the way. You should never talk to strangers about your purpose and employer.
* Gifts containing digital storage, eg. For example, USB sticks should be treated with caution, as they could contain malware. Accepting gifts from business partners can be problematic anyway, as consideration could be expected.




