#M 2.114 Information flow between teleworker and institution
Responsible for initiation: Teleworker, Supervisor

Responsible for implementation: teleworkers, supervisors

To ensure that teleworkers are not excluded from business operations, a regular exchange of information between teleworkers and their work colleagues must be institutionalized. For this purpose, both the superiors and the teleworkers are responsible. The respective supervisors must ensure that the teleworkers receive all necessary information for their work areas. Teleworkers, however, must also independently ask for information and news. The regular exchange of information is important so that teleworkers are informed about plans and objectives in their field of work. Frustrations can thus be avoided and a positive teleworking climate can be created and maintained.

Teleworkers should be involved in the circulation procedure for house communications, related information and journals. This is a problem when teleworkers work exclusively at home. One solution is to scan important documents and send them to teleworkers by e-mail. In any case, teleworkers must be informed in a timely manner about changes in security measures and other security-related aspects.

The co-workers in the institution must be informed about the availability and availability of teleworkers. The corresponding e-mail addresses and telephone numbers should be known to all colleagues. In addition, for better accessibility, the possibility of call forwarding from the telephone connection of the employee in the institution to the telephone in the home office should be used.

The following points must also be clarified in teleworking:

* Who is the contact person for technical and / or organizational problems in teleworking?
* Who must be notified of security incidents?
* How is the task assignment?
* How is the transfer of the work results carried out?


If technical and organizational problems arise, they must be immediately reported by the teleworker to the institution.



