#M 2.133 Control of the log files of a database system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The possible logging or auditing in a database system must be activated to a reasonable extent. If too many events are logged, the performance of the database is adversely affected and the log files grow strongly. There is always a trade-off between the need to gather as much information about the security of the database as possible and the ability to store and evaluate that information.

The following events are of particular interest:

* Login times and durations of users,
* Number of connections to the database,
* failed or rejected connection attempts,
* Occurrence of deadlocks within the database system,
* I / O statistics for each user,
* Access to the system tables (see also M 4.69 regular security check of the database),
* Creation of new database objects and
* Data modifications (possibly with date, time and user).


However, the logging of security-relevant events is only effective as a security measure if the logged data is also evaluated. Therefore, the log files are to be evaluated by an auditor at regular intervals. If it is not possible from an organizational or technical point of view to entrust an independent auditor with the evaluation of the log files, it is difficult to control the activities of the administrator.

Furthermore, when logging security-relevant events and when checking the log files, the following should be noted:

For checking the log files, they must always be copied to another environment. Suitable tools should be used. The responsibilities for logging and responsibilities for the activities to be logged must be separated. When logging security-relevant events, changes should only be possible in the four-eyes-principle.

Logging is to be protected:

* deactivation
* Changes of the event types to be logged,
* Change of log data (content) and


* Data loss for protocol media, eg. Eg by overwriting, incorrect writing, incorrect storage.


The log data must be deleted regularly on the production system in order to prevent an excessive growth of the log files. They may only be deleted, however, if the log files were previously evaluated and controlled. Under certain circumstances, the log data must be archived. The archiving or, if necessary, the deletion of the log files can be done manually or automatically, if appropriate tools are available.

In case of incidents the safety management has to be informed.

Furthermore, access to the log files must be strictly limited. On the one hand, it must be prevented that attackers can conceal their actions by subsequent modification of the log files, on the other hand, user profiling profiles could be created through the targeted evaluation of log files. For this reason, for example, changes can not be made at all and read access may only be permitted to the auditors.

When designing the procedure for logging and evaluating the log data, the data protection officer and the staff representatives must be involved in good time.

To simplify the evaluation of log data, the database administrator can use additional tools that perform automated monitoring. Such products can, for example, evaluate the log files of database systems according to predetermined patterns and, if necessary, generate an alarm.

Further measures that must be taken into account in this context can be found in M 2.64 Control of the log files.



