#M 2.176 Suitable selection of an Internet service provider
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

Providers of Internet services (ISP) offer various services, content or technical services that support the Internet use or the operation of their own Internet services. Institutions should choose providers carefully. With a provider, via which an institution is connected to the Internet, not only information about incoming and outgoing e-mails, but also about all web pages that the users access. In addition, all data that is exchanged between the users' computers and a server on the Internet is transmitted via the IT systems of the provider.

When selecting an Internet service provider, it should be questioned

* Whether contact persons are available around the clock for technical problems and how competent they are,
* how he is prepared for the failure of one or more of his IT systems (emergency planning, data backup concept),
* which availability (maximum downtime) he can guarantee
* whether he regularly checks whether the connections to the customer are still stable and, in the negative case, takes appropriate steps,
* What data about the Internet use of his customers with him and how he protects them against unauthorized access,
* what he does to secure his IT systems and that of his customers.


When choosing a provider, the institution should be documented by the provider that its IT systems are operated securely, ie. B. the requirements described in M 2.174 Secure Operation of a Web Server are met. All relevant measures for networked systems and data transmission facilities should be implemented. For each provider, a security concept and security policies should be self-evident. The security guidelines should be visible to external parties. Employees of the provider should be aware of security issues, have been committed to compliance with the security policy and receive regular training (not only on security issues).

The provider stores data about the users for billing purposes (name, address, user ID, bank details) as well as connection data and for a shorter or longer period depending on the provider also the transmitted content.

Users should ask their provider what data is stored for how long. When selecting providers, it should be taken into account that German operators are subject to the relevant data protection regulations for the processing of these data.

The exact modalities of the cooperation with the service provider must be contractually regulated and appropriate Service Level Agreements (SLAs) agreed, eg. Contact persons, reaction times, IT connection, control of services, design of security measures, handling of confidential information (see M 2.253 Contract drafting with the outsourcing service provider).



