#M 2.206 Planning the use of Lotus Notes / Domino
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

The use of Lotus Notes / Domino must be planned carefully. The planning process should be implemented as a continuous process and not just as a one-off first-time activity. The degree of detail of the planning and the extent of the documentation to be created in the planning process depends, among other things, on the protection requirements of the respective Lotus Notes / Domino environment. In addition, adequacy criteria such as size and resources of the institution must also be taken into account in the planning. In addition, the scope of use of the various services of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform and the complexity of the architecture must be taken into account.

For example, using Lotus Notes / Domino as the only internal and external e-mail platform and platform for workgroup collaboration (due to its simpler architecture) typically requires less time-consuming planning than a deployment that requires provides extranet and Internet interfaces in addition to e-mail and workgroup services, and provides a wide range of Internet services, including instant messaging and web services.

Basically, you must consider the following aspects when scheduling Lotus Notes / Domino:

* Architecture planning considering safety aspects,
* Planning the role of Lotus Notes / Domino in institution-wide identity management,
* Planning the domain and certificate hierarchy,
* Planning administrative activities in the Lotus Notes / Domino environment,
* Determining the relevance of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform for institution-wide business continuity and contingency planning
* Planning communication security for the Lotus Notes / Domino environment.


The Lotus Notes / Domino platform can be deployed using server virtualization techniques or terminal server technology. In these cases, an appropriate planning of the interaction of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform with the virtualization platform used is to be created.

Depending on the protection needs of the business processes supported by Lotus Notes / Domino, the high availability of Lotus Notes / Domino services may be required. The interaction of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform with the technology used to map the high availability requirements or the configuration of Lotus Notes / Domino's own mechanisms for high availability (clustering) are in these cases a corresponding one To map planning.

Architectural planning with consideration of security aspects

It must be ensured that, in addition to the functional and functional requirements of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform and the requirements that flow from IT strategic guidelines, security aspects in architectural planning are also taken into account. This can be done by taking into account general security guidelines or also by incorporating concrete specifications of the institution for the in-house security architecture.

The security guidelines relevant to Lotus Notes / Domino architecture planning, or elements of the security architecture, are to be transferred to concrete elements of architectural planning. So arez. For example, consider the security requirements of the organization to plan and secure network transitions when positioning and securing the Lotus Domino servers that are intended to transition to extranets or the Internet.

The decision as to how many Lotus Domino servers should be used at which points should be based primarily on the protection requirements of Lotus Domino services. In principle, a selective and restrictive installation of Lotus Domino services based on protection needs should be aimed for. Where possible, high-security low-protection services are already to be separated at the architectural level, so as to minimize the risk of compromising high-security services due to vulnerabilities in services with low protection requirements. So istz. B.In case of a correspondingly high protection requirement, the central e-mail service of the institution should be designed redundantly and run on servers that contain as few as possible other vulnerable services in terms of vulnerabilities.

Planning the role of Lotus Notes / Domino in institution-wide identity management

The Lotus Notes / Domino platform offers extensive functionality for establishing institution-wide identity management. It is fundamentally possible to use Lotus Notes / Domino as the leading identity management system and other systems via interfaces (eg LDAP interfaces) with information about electronic identities and their scope of rights supply. Conversely, Lotus Notes / Domino as a subordinate system can also receive this information from a corresponding interface of another leading system.

It is necessary that the institution be clearly identified as the leading identity management system and how the information about electronic identities in the IT landscape is propagated. This allows the role of Lotus Notes / Domino to be planned accordingly. This role has a major impact on the protection needs of Lotus Domino services and Lotus Notes / Domino infrastructure components.

Planning the domain and certificate hierarchy

The use of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform requires the planning of the domain and certificate hierarchy. This must be done for the first time during the introduction of Lotus Notes / Domino and adapted to relevant changes in the organizational structure, the services used, the connected Partneretc.entsprechend. Because many security-related settings are effective at the domain level (for example, lockouts, security-relevant replication parameters), the consideration of security issues is essential when planning the domain hierarchy.

While a one-domain concept may suffice for small institutions (in relation to the productive domains), it is generally the case for complex structures such For example, for corporations or larger institutions, a multi-domain approach may be required. Elements of the domain hierarchy are all elements that are available for defining the Lotus Domino infrastructure. In addition to the Lotus Domino domains, these include the Lotus Domino organizations and the Lotus Domino networks (DNNs, Lotus Domino Named Networks) as well as the hierarchical naming system used (based on the X.500 standard).

The security-related mapping of the domain hierarchy (which regulates among other things between which servers and users communication can take place) takes place via a certificate hierarchy (PKI). The planning of the certificate hierarchy depends on the role of Lotus Notes / Domino in institution-wide identity management. Significant changes in identity management should always result in an adaptation of the planning of the certificate hierarchy and not be reflected by technical workarounds. It has to be considered that both Lotus Notes own and Internet certificates (X.509 certificates) have to be managed.

The required structures and processes (as described in the X.509 standards, for example) must be defined in the planning of the certificate hierarchy. This includes, for example, the definition of the certification authority (Certificate Authority), the registration authority (Registration Authority) and the certification process (CA process). It must be decided whether a third-party certification authority will be used or whether a Lotus Domino certification body will be set up.

All technical settings as well as the administrative processes and processes in the environment of the certificate hierarchy must be planned very carefully, conceptually elaborated in detail and adequately documented. It has to be taken into account that as of Lotus Notes / Domino 8.5 it is possible to check for returned certificates via OCSP (Online Certificate Status Protocol, RFC 2560 of the IETF). A corresponding update of the planning of the certificate hierarchy must be carried out.

Planning administrative activities in the Lotus Notes / Domino environment

It is necessary to plan administrative activities in the Lotus Notes / Domino environment in detail and to specify them in the form of binding instructions (such as a binding administration guide). The level of detail of the planning and the scope of the documentation depend on the specified protection requirements of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform.

In particular, critical administrative activities, for example in the environment of the certification process, but also in user administration, in database administration, in the installation and configuration of components and services, must be carried out with appropriate care and expertise.

The adequate documentation of critical administration activities must be requested in the administration instructions and checked accordingly.

Improper, on-call, or insufficiently documented administrative activities, as well as preventive attacks under misuse of administrative rights, represent significant threats. These, though not Lotus Notes / Domino-specific, have a significant impact on Achieve the protection goals for the Lotus Notes / Domino platform.

Due to the technical complexity of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform, it is usually not sufficient to implement general administration instructions without performing platform-specific expressions.

When planning the administrative activities for Lotus Notes / Domino, it must also be stipulated that monitoring and controlling of these activities must take place using the technical capabilities of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform.

Determine the relevance of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform for institution-wide business continuity and contingency planning

The planning of operations and the deeply integrated security measures of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform, such as: For example, backup / recovery operations require the classification of the platform in the overall context of business continuity and contingency planning. If this has not already been done in the corresponding activities of the institution, the classification of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform with regard to business continuity and contingency planning should be part of the planning for the introduction or migration of Lotus Notes / Domino take place. Only in this way can a number of required security measures, such as. B.Measures to ensure the availability of the platform or individual services, plan appropriately.

Planning communication security for the Lotus Notes / Domino environment

Due to the distributed architecture of typical Lotus Notes / Domino environments, the planning of communication security plays a key role in security planning. The following topics relevant to communication security must be covered:

* Server-to-server communication of Lotus Domino servers (using both Lotus Notes protocols, Internet protocols, and database replication),
* Client-to-server communication for Lotus Notes clients to Lotus Domino servers (for all Lotus Notes client types including administrative clients),
* Client-to-server communication for foreign clients to Lotus Domino servers (using the POP3 and IMAP protocols),
* Remote access access and specific dial-in accesses of Lotus Domino servers,
* Use of push services for mobile devices,
* Uninstalling (or not installing) unsafe or unneeded communication protocols (eg WebDAV),
* Restrictive establishment of trust relationships between servers,
* Use or provision of services / interfaces outside the Lotus Notes / Domino environment, such as: B.LDAP interfaces.


It should be kept in mind that Lotus Notes / Domino has a history of providing modem connections between servers that are outdated in today's environments and can induce security risks. Communications security planning must provide for removal of these links (if any) and deactivation of the appropriate interface (s).



