#M 2.372 Planning the use of VoIP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

A basic prerequisite for the secure use of VoIP is adequate planning in advance. The planning for the use of VoIP can be carried out in several steps according to the principle of top-down draft: Based on a rough concept for the overall system, concrete plans for subcomponents are defined in specific subconcepts. Planning does not only concern aspects that are classically associated with the term security, but also normal operational aspects that may entail safety requirements.

In the rough concept, for example, the following typical questions should be dealt with:

* Should be converted completely or partially to VoIP? Should VoIP only be used for the communication of the line-switching PBX systems?
* Are there special requirements for the availability of VoIP or the confidentiality and integrity of telephone calls or signaling information?
* Which signaling and media transport protocols should be used?
* How many users should be allowed to communicate over VoIP?
* How should the connection to the public telephone network be made? Should VoIP-based communication connections be permitted directly from the public data network?
* Can the security of the existing LAN be affected by VoIP? Is the existing LAN sufficiently dimensioned for the use of VoIP? Do you need to make any changes to the network architecture?


The following subconcepts should be taken into consideration when planning the use of VoIP:

* Encryption scope: It must be determined what is to be encrypted. For example, it can be decided that the entire communication in the LAN is not encrypted, but all external calls are to be protected against access and manipulation by third parties (see measure M 2.374 Volume of encryption of VoIP). , In addition, it must be decided whether the multimedia data and / or the signaling should be encrypted.
* Encryption mechanisms: If encryption has been established for individual communication links, it must be decided how the protection can be integrated. Encryption can be performed at the application layer, such as via H.235 or SRTP (see M 5.134 Secure signaling in VoIP and M 5.135 Secure media transport with SRTP), as well as at lower layers, such as via SSL / TLS, IPsec or VPNs.
* Component selection: In order to be able to implement the decisions made, the devices to be used must also support them. If no suitable equipment can be procured, because, for example, not all requirements can be met, the planning must be corrected. The resulting changes must be coordinated and documented with the security management.
* Emergency preparedness: The availability of telephony is an important prerequisite not only for the business processes. If telephony fails, no help can be called in emergency cases. Therefore, appropriate precautions must be taken. Further information on this can be found in the M 6.100 creation of an emergency plan for the failure of VoIP.
* Network separation: In some cases, the logical or physical separation of the VoIP network from the data network may be useful (see measure M 2.376 Separation of the data and VoIP network). In the planning phase it has to be decided if a segmentation is necessary.
* Features: Very often, VoIP components offer additional features. These may require the operation of an additional middleware component or have other security-related disadvantages. The safety-critical features include, for example, the connection to an existing call, room monitoring functions and the intercom. During the planning it has to be decided which features should be used.
* Administration and configuration: It must be decided in advance who should administer and configure. This should be an administrator responsible for VoIP. Furthermore, it has to be decided how the administration is to be carried out (see M 4.287 Secure Administration of the VoIP Middleware and M 4.288 Secure Administration of VoIP Terminals).
* Logging: The logging of messages of the individual VoIP components plays an important role, for example in the diagnosis and correction of malfunctions or in the detection and resolution of attacks. In the planning phase it should be decided which information should at least be logged and how long the log data should be stored. In addition, it must be specified whether the log data should be stored locally on the system or on a central log server in the network.


All decisions made in the planning phase must be documented in such a way that they can be reconstructed at a later date. It should be noted that this information must usually be evaluated by persons other than the author. Therefore, attention must be paid to appropriate structuring and comprehension.



