#M 2.382 Creation of a security policy for WLAN use
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

Appropriate security guidelines must be established for the use of WLAN components in public agencies and companies. These WLAN-specific security policies must be compliant with the overall security policy and general security policies of the institution. They must be regularly checked for actuality and adjusted if necessary. The WLAN-specific specifications can be supplemented in the existing guidelines or summarized in a separate guideline.

A wireless security policy should include the following:

* It should be described who may install, configure and use WLAN components in the institution. For this purpose, a variety of constraints are set such. B.Which information about WLAN components can be passed on, where the WLAN components are used and where access points can be set up, to which other internal or external networks the WLAN may be coupled.
* Security measures and a default configuration should be specified for all WLAN components.


* If security issues are suspected, a security officer must be informed so that they can take further action (see also B 1.8 Handling security incidents).


* Administrators as well as users of WLAN components should be informed about the dangers of WLAN components and the security measures to be observed.
* The correct implementation of the security measures described in the WLAN security guideline should be checked regularly.




## Examples 
* to which other internal and external networks the WLAN client may be coupled,
* under which conditions you can log on to an internal or external WLAN,
* if and how hotspots can be used,
* that the ad hoc mode is to be switched off so that no other client can access the WLAN client directly,
* What steps should be taken in case of (suspected) compromise of the WLAN client, especially who to notify.




