#M 2.485 Selection of backends for OpenLDAP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The intended use of the directory service is followed by which backends are to be provided for the later installation and configuration:

* If OpenLDAP manages one or more databases directly, then select a backend that is suitable for appropriate data management. For the management of data, OpenLDAP is optimized to use the BerkeleyDB database management system (DBMS). For BerkeleyDB there are two different backends available: back-bdb and the further development back-hdb. Although the back-end back-hdb generates a higher load in the IT system and has higher requirements for the data storage required for data caching, it has a larger scope of functions and supports renaming whole sub trees in the directory structure (subtree renaming). The medium-term planning of the OpenLDAP team plans to give up back-bdb. For new installations of OpenLDAP it is therefore recommended to use back-hdb. With the backend back-ldif, OpenLDAP can also store data in files in the LDAP Data Interchange Format (LDIF). In LDIF format, the entire database is stored in plain text format in text files. This type of data storage is inefficient for larger amounts of data and unsuitable for a large number of users. If the online configuration is used, back-ldif is nevertheless necessary, because the suffix CN = config is always stored in the format LDIF.
* OpenLDAP can be used in whole or in part as a proxy for other LDAP servers. In this case, the backend back-ldap or the further development back-meta is needed. Unlike back-ldap, back-meta is able to address different servers simultaneously. The backend has a greater functionality than back-ldap, but is also very complicated to configure. Back-ldap is sufficient for most applications. The backend back-ldap is also required whenever the slapd server itself initiates ldap operations. This is the case, for example, if the slapd server releases references on its own or replicates in push mode.
* It is also possible that OpenLDAP accesses data from a relational database. For this, the backend back-sql is used. It should be noted that a relational database is unsuitable for completely storing the data of a directory service. It may only make sense to connect OpenLDAP to a relational database to retrieve individual additional information from such a data source, such as a phone number from a phone list into a directory service that manages all the users of an institution.
* Optionally, OpenLDAP must obtain data from self-developed applications or be used to control such applications. If the communication does not happen via the LDAP standard, one of the backends, back-perl, back-shell or back-sock, is necessary depending on the self-created interface.
* If it is decided that the operation of OpenLDAP is to be monitored (monitoring), the backend back-monitor provides the necessary functions (see M 4.407 Logging when using OpenLDAP).


Other backends than those mentioned here should not be considered in production environment planning. They are either obsolete (back-ldbm, back-tcl), intended only for testing purposes (back-passwd, back-null) or have an experimental status in the OpenLDAP version 2.4 (back-dnssrv, back-ndb , back-relay).



