#M 2.26 Appointment of an administrator and a representative
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager, HR manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, Head of Human Resources

In order to enable the orderly operation of IT systems, administrators must be defined for all IT systems and networks. In addition to general administration work, you are responsible in particular for user administration, including the administration of access rights. In addition, they are responsible for the security concerns of all IT systems they manage.

For larger authorities or companies with a large number of different IT systems and subnetworks, it must also be ensured that the tasks are distributed among the various administrators in such a way that there are no responsibility issues, that is, neither Overlaps still gaps in the distribution of tasks. In addition, the communication between the various administrators should be as smooth as possible. For this z. B. Regular administrators meetings are held, where typical problems and solutions in the daily work are discussed.

When using logging, attention should be paid to the role separation of administration and revision. Here it must be checked to what extent the IT systems support this.

In order to maintain the functions if an administrator is prevented, a representative must be named. It is important to ensure that it receives its own administrator ID (see also M 2.38 Division of Administration Activities). Under no circumstances may the password be passed on for convenience in case of substitution.

To take over administration tasks, it must be ensured that the administrator and the representatives are also provided with the necessary time for a careful completion of the task. It must also be taken into account that education and training measures are required.

The specific administration activities when using z / OS systems are explained in M .2.295 System Administration of z / OS Systems.



