#M 2.249 Planning migration of Exchange systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

In practice, an already existing Exchange system is more often migrated than a complete reinstallation is performed. For Exchange, migrating from a legacy version is an important scenario.

A version change in Microsoft Exchange systems means a serious leap in almost all aspects. It is therefore not a software update, but a far-reaching design change. This change not only affects the Microsoft Exchange software, but also the underlying Windows Server operating system.

When installing Microsoft Exchange systems, a so-called schema extension of the Active Directory is made. A schema change is a fundamental interference with the Active Directory that can not be undone. It is therefore essential to include the Windows system administrators and especially the Active Directory schema administrators in migration planning.

The migration must be planned as detailed as possible in its individual steps, the desired migration process documented and made accessible to all parties involved. The following steps are to be performed as part of the migration process:

* Data backup of all components of the existing groupware system,
* Test run of the new software in a test scenario
* Installation of the new computers (for Microsoft Exchange server) with Windows Server operating system,
* New computers (for Microsoft Exchange Server) become a member of the desired domain,
* Installing the Microsoft Exchange software on the Windows servers provided for this,
* Distribution and customization of the corresponding Microsoft Outlook clients,
* Setting up the user accounts including the e-mail functionality and
* Importing the old e-mail data to the migrated system.


The following aspects have to be taken into consideration when planning the migration from a security point of view:

* Which mailboxes or objects are to be migrated?
* Will the existing security policy be adopted, changed or supplemented?
* Has the existing Active Directory concept been taken into account and, where necessary, supplemented?
* Which e-mail systems need to be connected?
* Are functions in use that have been canceled or discontinued with the new version?
* The new software should be tested in a separate test network before installation.


In general, note that the terminology of objects on Microsoft Exchange changes with version changes.

How the requirements of this measure can be implemented concretely is listed in the following documents of the Microsoft Technet for the version 2010, for example:

* An overview of upgrading to Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 provides: Upgrading to Exchange 2010: Exchange 2010 Help.
* An overview of the discontinued or changed features of older Microsoft Exchange servers in relation to Microsoft Exchange 2010 provides: Discontinued Features and De-Emphasized Functionality: Exchange 2010 Help.
* Coexistence of version-side Microsoft Exchange servers with Microsoft Exchange 2010 must be scheduled. The changed access model for Exchange objects must be observed, as described in Understanding Permissions: Exchange 2010 Help.
* Migrating from Lotus Notes is described in Migrating from Lotus Notes to the Microsoft Collaboration Platform.




