#M 2.8 Assignment of access rights
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

Access rights regulate which person is authorized to use IT applications or data as part of their role. The access rights (for example, reading, writing, executing) to IT applications, subapplications or data depend on the function performed by the person, e.g. B.Advertisement, work preparation, system programming, application development, system administration, revision, data collection, administration. At the same time, only as many access rights should be assigned as are necessary for the task perception (need-to-know principle). The access rights must be implemented through the rights management of the IT system.

A large number of IT systems allow different rights to be defined as group rights or rights profiles (eg group data collection). This definition corresponds to the technical implementation of the rights assigned to a function. For the administration of the rights of an IT system, it is advantageous to create such groups or profiles, as this can considerably simplify the assignment of rights and their updating.

The specification and modification of access rights must be initiated and documented by the responsible person. The documentation must show:

* which function is equipped with which access rights, taking into account the separation of functions (see M 2.5 Task distribution and function separation),
* which group or profiles are set up,
* which person perceives which function,
* which access rights a person receives in the context of which role (in this case also the access rights of representatives should be recorded) and
* which conflicts occurred during the allocation of access rights. These conflicts can, for. This can result, for example, from the fact that a person performs incompatible functions or from the fact that, depending on the IT system, the separation of certain access rights can not be performed.
* which persons in an emergency receive which access rights, eg. B. since they belong to the crisis team.


The procedure for separating functions and assigning rights is explained in the following example.

The application considered is a travel expense accounting system. The relevant rooms are explained in the following graphic. The IT system consists of a LAN, in addition to a server and the control console, three PCs are connected as workstations.





## Examples 
* Function 1 and Function 2 (the administration can not control itself)
* Function 2 and Function 6 (the Authorizing Officer must not control himself)
* the combination of functions 4 or 5 with 6 (the four-eyes principle would be violated for payment instructions)




