#M 2.579 Regular audits of the local network
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, authority / company management

For all components of the LAN infrastructure, it is necessary to check regularly whether all defined security measures have been implemented and whether these are configured correctly. It should be made clear to all those involved that audits should always serve only to establish facts and not for blaming (see also M 2.199 Maintaining information security).

The result of an audit can be considered as a simple target / actual comparison. The report should, in due course, specify z. B. from the security policy and represent the findings of the audit on the individual requirements. If deviations from the target state are found and remedial measures are known, these should be included in the report.



## Examples 
* There is a security concept for the technical design and organizational regulations of the LAN.
* The protection requirements of the information regarding availability and confidentiality have been defined and documented according to the specifications of the users.
* During commissioning, the default passwords were replaced in all LAN components (servers, routers and switches, security gateways, memory solutions, administration PCs etc.).
* The LAN components (servers, routers and switches, security gateways, storage solutions etc.) are stationed in access protected premises with adequate infrastructure (power supply, air conditioning).
* Administrative access to the LAN components is exclusively encrypted or via a separate administration network.
* The administration network is protected by firewalls, anti-virus software and, if necessary, aIDS.
* For administration, only secure connections are used (eg  berHTTPS, SSH).
* The data is encrypted transported or stored if this is necessary because of their protection needs.
* Logging is set so that error situations and attempted abuse are logged. The log files are checked regularly.
* Basic configuration and the following relevant changes of the configuration are documented in writing. Both a description of the logical and physical topology of the LAN is present and up-to-date. This documentation is also available in case of emergency.
* After changes, security-relevant settings of corresponding LAN components are checked again.
* The trouble-free flow of data backups and the usability of backup media are regularly monitored.




