#M 2.168 IT system analysis before introducing a system management system
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Before implementing a systems management system, the IT systems that will be managed in the future must be analyzed and analyzed. The resulting system documentation can then serve as the basis for planning and decision-making for the system management strategy to be defined (see M 2.169 Developing a System Management Strategy). It is important that all relevant information about the systems to be managed is available as completely as possible at the time of planning in order to rule out incorrect decisions due to a lack of information. In addition, local requirements can be used to formulate concrete requirements that must be met by the management system to be procured (K.O. criteria).

The following measures (with the sub-measures described there) must be carried out, which ideally have already been or will be carried out during the planning and during ongoing operation of the system in accordance with IT-Grundschutz:

* Actual recording of the current network situation (see M 2.139 Actual recording of the current network situation)
* Documentation of the system configuration (see M .2.25 Documentation of the system configuration) All IT systems should be recorded and documented. In particular, in heterogeneous systems z. For example, all existing operating systems can be captured to formulate the appropriate requirements for the management system.
* Determination and verification of the software inventory (see M 2.10 Checking the hardware and software inventory) If software is also to be managed in the context of system management (application management), an inventory should be made here. Alternatively, the automatic detection of the software inventory (autodiscovery, software discovery) can be formulated as a requirement on the management system. Which of the two variants is necessary in an individual case depends on the task that is to be performed in the field of software management. If the management system z. B. purchased to automatically manage an existing software inventory, whose composition is not completely known (software update, importing new software), so the management system after installation must be able to automatically detect the software inventory. If individual software packages are to be additionally managed at the application level within the context of application management, then it must be checked whether the software actively supports this (eg by means of a corresponding protocol), which means that a previous stocktaking of the existing software is not possible does. This then results in requirements for the functional scope of the management system to be procured (for example, support of the application management protocol). If, for example, a web server is managed via an HTTP-based management interface, the management system must have HTTP-based management functions or offer an enhancement interface that allows in-house developments to be integrated.


In addition to the documentation of the current status, the future planning for the IT system should also be taken into account, since a management system should also be designed for future changes in the IT system (eg scalability ).



