#M 2.415 Perform a VPN request analysis
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Before a VPN connection is established between individual IT systems, different locations of an institution or even to customers, a requirements analysis should be carried out. The aim of the requirements analysis is on the one hand to determine all possible application scenarios in question and on the other hand to derive requirements for the required hardware and software components. By setting up and running through usage scenarios, special requirements for the VPN architecture or the VPN components can be revealed.

In the context of this requirement analysis, the following points should be noted, among others:

* Determination of the business processes: First, it must be clarified for which business processes the virtual private network (VPN) should be used and which information should be communicated about it. From the results, the required requirements must be determined and prioritized according to their importance for the company or the authorities. In addition to the business processes, the applications that support the respective processes must also be considered. It must also be determined which of the affected applications are time-critical or bandwidth-intensive.
* Definition of the application purposes: There are many different usage scenarios for VPNs, such as the execution of remote maintenance activities, the connection of individual employees or entire locations. Therefore, it is necessary to clarify which purposes are to be supported and which types of VPNs are used (eg site-to-site, end-to-end and end-to-site VPNs). ,
* Defining the users: It is to be clarified, which types of users with which authorizations and which previous knowledge should use the VPN (eg office workers, employees on business trip, employees of a branch office). It is also to be clarified how these should be identified and authenticated safely.
* Regulation of Responsibilities: Even VPN components must be administered and maintained by competent personnel. Therefore, when performing a VPN request analysis, it should be determined who is responsible for the administration and operation of the VPN - on both sides of the VPN. It is also necessary to clarify who to notify if the VPN fails or if signs of a security incident are detected. For this, specialized personnel must be present who have the appropriate knowledge.
* Confidentiality and Integrity: Depending on the level of protection required in terms of confidentiality and integrity, special requirements are often placed on the VPN, which can generally be covered by additional security measures. In many cases, there are higher-level regulations or guidelines that must be taken into account when procuring and operating VPN components. In order to transmit information with a high protection requirement in terms of confidentiality and / or integrity, it is recommended to use certified VPN components in accordance with the Common Criteria (see also M 2.66 Considering the Contribution of the Certification for Procurement). , An example of certified VPN components is the SINA family of products (Secure Inter-Network Architecture). In addition to pure crypto gateways (SINA Box) for establishing VPN connections, the SINA product family also includes end systems with integrated cryptographic functions (SINA client) and a management system.
* Availability: Especially in the case of site networking, it is often desired that information about the VPN can be exchanged sufficiently quickly at any time. If the applications concerned have a higher protection requirement with regard to availability, this should be taken into account in the requirements analysis. Increased availability requirements can not always be covered by technical security measures in the case of VPNs, since VPNs are often set up via networks that are not under their own control and therefore can not be influenced.
* Restriction of networks: With VPNs, different networks can be combined by using a secure connection to a logical network. Depending on the configuration, all the IT systems of one network can access all IT systems or only certain IT systems of the other networks. In the VPN request analysis, it should be decided from where the respective VPN on which network and which IT systems may be accessed.
* Selection of used applications and protocols: Via a VPN, different types of information can be sent and received. For example, emails can be transferred, files copied or accessed on a web server. In addition to these classic services, you can also work on a terminal server or call via VoIP. It should therefore be determined which applications may be used over a VPN and which not. Not only must it be decided which applications can be used, but also the protocols with which the information can be transmitted. For example, it may be specified that network shares may only be included through SMSNNFS.
* Bandwidth and Delay: A VPN allows access to applications in a remote network. As DaVPN connections are often set up over a WAN, special requirements have to be taken into account for time-critical applications, especially with regard to the available bandwidth and delays in the transmission. This concerns, for example, access to the terminal server or telephony via VoIP. For the VPN requirement analysis, the required bandwidths, the permissible delay and, if applicable, other quality characteristics of the network should be taken into account.
* Geographical Restrictions: A VPN can be used to allow mobile workers to dial into the Institutional LAN from anywhere on the move. However, if this is not desired, it should be decided from where the LAN may be accessed. This can also be supported technically. For example, only the IP address range of one or less providers could be allowed. For a dial-up connection, the country code could be filtered. It should be noted, however, that these technical limitations of access are not completely reliable. In addition, the users must be provided with appropriate organizational specifications.


These points do not necessarily have to be considered as a flat rate for the entire institution, but can also be applied in a differentiated way to individual locations or application purposes. Often, not every property has the same priority, especially in the networking of several locations. Smaller sales offices, for example, usually have different requirements for availability than corporate headquarters. Similarly, end-to-end VPNs have different requirements than site-to-site VPNs. As a solution approach, the various applications could be classified, for example, in terms of their bandwidth, availability, confidentiality, integrity, and quality of service (or short QoS) requirements.

The results of the requirements analysis must be documented and agreed with the technical staff. The technical requirements and the security objectives formulated in the information security guideline flow into the design of the VPN (see M 2.416 Planning of VPN deployment and M 2.417 Planning of technical VPN implementation) and its implementation.



