#M 2.125 Installation and configuration of a database
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In general, a distinction must be made between the initial installation of a database software and the installation on existing database systems.

Since no users want to access the database when installing a database software for the first time and no legacy data is available (except in other database systems), this is relatively unproblematic and hardly interferes with normal IT operation.

For installations on existing systems, on the other hand, work should, if possible, take place outside normal working hours in order to minimize the disruption to normal IT operations. In any case, users should be informed of any work in progress to alert them to possible problems or longer response times.

The installation and configuration of a database is divided into the following activities:



## Examples 
* Are the installation of the database software and the creation of the database suitably documented?
* Are the documentation of the manufacturer for the installation of the database software and creation of the database taken into account?
* Are all the settings made during the database configuration documented in detail?
* Is the authorization concept taken into account in the database configuration?
* Is the creation and configuration of the database objects, including the access permissions, logged or documented?




