#M 2.195 Creation of a security concept
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

An information security concept serves to implement the security strategy and describes the planned procedure in order to achieve the set security objectives of an institution. The security concept is the central document in the security process of a company or a public authority. Every concrete measure must ultimately be attributed to this. For this reason, a security concept must be carefully planned and implemented and regularly checked. The individual aspects briefly described below are dealt with in detail in the BSI Standard 100-2 IT Baseline Protection Procedure.

Not all areas of an institution must be covered by a single security concept. If the implementation of the IT-Grundschutz in a big step represents an unclear task, it may make sense to first establish the required level of security in selected areas. From this base, the security process should then extend to the whole organization. Especially with large authorities and companies, there can be several security concepts that cover different organizational areas. But then it has to be ensured that all areas of an institution are covered by appropriate security concepts.

Complex business processes or applications can be treated in their own security concepts. This is especially useful when introducing new tasks or applications.

The defined scope is referred to below as the information network and represents in detail the area for which the security concept is to be implemented. An information network can thus refer to specialist tasks, business processes or organizational units. It includes all infrastructural, organizational, personnel and technical components that serve the task fulfillment in this application area of ??information processing.

The information network must be defined in such a way that the business processes and information considered can be completely assigned to this area. The dependencies of all safety-relevant processes have to be considered. The interfaces to the other areas have to be clearly defined so that the information network in the entire company has a reasonable minimum size.

Security management must select a methodology for risk assessment that allows potential damage to be analyzed and assessed through security incidents. It is also possible to choose several consecutive risk assessment procedures.

The procedure for IT-Grundschutz implicitly carries out a risk assessment for areas with normal protection requirements.

However, in certain cases, for example if the considered information network contains components with high or very high protection requirements, a supplementary safety analysis and, if necessary, an explicit risk analysis must be carried out. The necessary steps are described in the BSI standards 100-2 and 100-3.

The basis of every risk assessment is the description of the information and business processes to be protected. In order to get an overview of the organizational or technical structures that are important for the business processes, the information network has to be structured. In addition to the technical components, the applications and the processing information, the spatial infrastructure and networking should also be included. The dependencies of the various components must also be recorded.

The protection needs assessment includes the following steps:

* An analysis is made of the dangers and risks for the institution as a result of insufficient information security.
* Possible damage due to loss of confidentiality, integrity or availability is identified.
* The potential impact on business or on the performance of security incidents and other security risks is analyzed and assessed.


These considerations can be used to assess the risk to the company, or the authority, and determine the need for protection of information, applications and IT systems.

From the general safety goals, the identified need for protection and the risk assessment concrete safety measures are derived according to the observed information network. For this purpose, concrete building blocks of the IT-Grundschutz catalogs for the security requirements of an information network must be selected in order to obtain a specific package of security measures as target specifications.

In order to determine which of the security measures have already been implemented and where there are still gaps, a basic security check is carried out.

The implementation of the proposed IT-Grundschutz measures is usually sufficient for typical business processes, applications and components with normal protection needs. However, a supplementary safety analysis is required for elements of the information network that

* have high or very high protection requirements in at least one of the three basic values ??of confidentiality, integrity or availability or
* can not be adequately mapped (modeled) with the existing building blocks of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs or
* are used in application scenarios (eg in environments or with applications) that are not provided for in IT-Grundschutz.


The aim of the supplementary safety analysis is to prepare and bring about a management decision for which of these elements an explicit risk analysis is to be carried out.

On the basis of the risk situation, supplements or corrections to the safety concept may be made as part of the risk analysis. Risks for which no suitable or economic countermeasures can be taken are identified and also subjected to a systematic risk treatment.

Before the completion of a security concept, the measures additionally identified in the risk analysis must be consolidated with the IT Baseline Protection Measures. For all newly identified security measures, it must be checked whether they replace, supplement or impair the effects of the existing measures. The results of the basic safety check must then be completed and updated.

A security concept is only effective if the measures provided for are implemented in practice in a timely manner. This must be planned and controlled.

For this purpose, it must be noted in which period of time the individual measures are to be implemented and which can be implemented jointly if appropriate. In addition, the measures must be prioritized according to the urgency of the implementation. Implementation planning should be recorded either in the security concept or in an attached implementation plan. This should include implementation order and responsibilities:

* Defining priorities (implementation order): All security measures should be prioritized according to importance and effectiveness. In principle, action against particularly serious threats should be given priority. This is especially important when there is little protection against these threats. Knnenz. If, for financial reasons, not all measures are implemented immediately, the measures with the greatest impact should be implemented first.
* The order of implementation should take into account possible interdependencies between measures.
* Responsibilities: For each measure, it is necessary to determine who is responsible for their initialization, implementation and control (eg Audit) or revision.


When selecting security measures, their suitability and cost-effectiveness must also be taken into account. It must be understandable why the selected measures are likely to meet the safety objectives and requirements. The documentation should therefore contain specific information on responsibilities and responsibilities, as well as planned control, audit, monitoring activities.

The order for the implementation of open activities should be noted. In addition, the planned or used resources for the implementation of the individual security measures are to be documented.

Since information security is a continuous process, it is not enough to implement the security measures once. Information security must be continuously improved. The security process therefore needs to respond to new technical developments. Weaknesses and newly discovered vulnerabilities must be taken into account. The security process should therefore be regularly checked, updated and all changes documented. Important procedures include the introduction of regular reports (see M 2.2002 Management Reports on Information Security) and reporting processes.

A certification of the security process documents compliance with a defined procedure and can be integrated into the security process as an independent review process.

The security concept is often used in practice to check specific security measures with regard to their implementation or their relevance. Therefore, it should be structured so that

* specific areas can be found quickly, and
* It can be updated with minimal effort (using a tool for this).


In addition, the individual security measures should be described in sufficient detail so that a third party can assume security-related tasks in the case of substitution.

A security concept may include confidential information, such as: B. Information on weaknesses that have not yet been eliminated or information on measures that help to circumvent or overcome these measures. Such confidential information may only be disclosed to the persons in charge. The security concept should therefore be structured in such a way that the areas that concern a broad group of addressees are separated from those that can only be passed on to a limited extent.

It is important to build a common understanding of information security in an institution. This includes the use of consistent and clear terms. Therefore, a glossary should be made in due time with the most important terms around information security. This glossary helps to create all security related documents. It can be published in the security concept or individually.



