#M 2.419 Suitable selection of VPN products
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer

Companies and authorities have a variety of requirements for networks, such as the networking of different locations and the connection of mobile employees or teleworkers to the internal network. Accordingly, the requirements of the institutions differ and have to be taken into account when selecting VPN products. The results of the measures M 3.65 Introduction to VPN Basic Terms and M 2.416 Planning of the VPN deployment are also to be included.

VPN products differ in their scope of performance, the security mechanisms offered, ease of use and economic efficiency. In addition, they pose different requirements for hardware and software components in the application environment.

Before a VPN product is procured, a list of requirements should be created for the evaluation of the products available on the market. Based on the evaluation, an informed purchase decision can then be made.

If a service provider is commissioned to provide a VPN, the choice of products operated by the service provider can generally not be influenced. Hints for the selection of VPN service providers can be found in M 2.420 Selection of a Trusted VPN Service Provider.

A VPN usually consists of the combination of several hardware and software components. First of all, a rough distinction can be made between LAN-side and client-side components. The specific components to be procured depend on the chosen VPN system architecture. In large institutions, multiple VPN connections are often operated simultaneously for different purposes. For this purpose, special IT systems (hardware with software) are usually required that are specially designed for use as a VPN server.

Various manufacturers offer VPN components as appliances. These are preconfigured devices that are only manufactured and configured for a precisely specified purpose (here: VPN endpoint). In contrast to the setup of a central VPN component consisting of standard IT components that are configured accordingly (by the user or by a service provider), appliances often offer the advantage of simpler configuration. However, this usually has the disadvantage that the configuration is less flexible and offers fewer opportunities to adapt to individual needs.

The following basic security features must be met when selecting VPN products:

* Identification, Authentication and Authorization: This includes the identification and authentication of systems among each other, systems to users and users to systems. It must be possible to set up different user IDs with different rights profiles. There should be sufficiently strong recognized authentication procedures. Remote access should be secured by strong authentication. It must also be possible to map the specified access rights to the VPN components.
* Quality of Service (QoS): In the context of network transitions, the term "services" is to be understood as monitoring and controlling the communication that may be made via a security gateway. A suitable product must be able to fulfill the requirements determined during the VPN design and enable the prioritization of business-critical applications.
* Transmission security: For the purpose of transmission, functions are used which ensure the confidentiality and integrity of the data. In addition, the authenticity of the communication partners must be guaranteed. It is important that the product offers secure cryptographic mechanisms, which correspond to the state of the art (see M 2.164 Selection of a suitable cryptographic method). When planning and implementing the VPN, the integration of the VPN endpoints into a security gateway must also be taken into account.
* Key Management: Key management needs to have proper functionality to manage, distribute, and eventually generate secret and public keys to the cryptographic mechanisms. The selected products should be as flexible as possible and allow a seamless integration of different techniques.


The following list gives an overview of possible general evaluation criteria, but does not claim to be complete and can be extended to include further general requirements. In addition to the criteria listed here, further specific requirements must be worked out that result from the planned concrete application scenarios (see measure M 2.415 Execution of a VPN requirement analysis).



## Examples 
* Performance and Scalability Can the Product Meet Performance Requirements? Does the Product Provide Load Balancing Capabilities Can the Products Compress and Decompress the Information to Be Transmitted? Can the Product Meet Future Growth Needs? through modular system design, easy integration of new VPN servers, shared user management for all VPN connections)?
* Maintainability Is the product easy to maintain? Does the manufacturer provide regular software updates? Is there a service contract for the product? Can the service agreements provide maximum response times for troubleshooting? Manufacturer of a competent technical customer service (call center, hotline), who is able to help immediately with problems?
* Reliability / failure safetyHow reliable and fail-safe is the product? Does the manufacturer also offer high-availability solutions? Can the product be used in continuous operation?
* Ease of use Is the product easy to install, configure and use? Does the product comply with the applicable ergonomic regulations? Especially for the VPN client, the user guidance is designed in such a way that even untrained users can work with it without having to compromise on security ( eg through context-sensitive help, online documentation, detailed error messages) • Is the use of the VPN client configurable in such a way that users are burdened as little as possible with technical details? Is safety always guaranteed?




