#M 2.236 Planning the use of Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Basically, there are two usage scenarios for eDirectory:

* the use as a management product for resources in a given network or
* the use as a (meta) directory service (LDAP server).


From an abstract perspective, eDirectory forms a hierarchical and tree-like organized, object-based database. It is based on the directory service standard X.500, from which it has borrowed the internal structure and structure. However, it is not an X.500-compliant directory service because the access protocol is based on the Novell Directory Access Protocol (NDAP) proprietary.

The tree concept of eDirectory is represented in the following way: in a tree, servers, users and other resources are mapped and can be managed by the tree administrator. A tree fundamentally forms an administrative boundary and also limits the scope of permissions.

An eDirectory directory tree consists of different objects. Each object belongs to an excellent class, eg. User object or server object, and is composed of various attributes or properties according to this class. The different object attributes can hold different values, eg. Phone number or IP address. The information about the existing object classes including the attributes occurring in them are kept in the directory schema. By changing the schema definition, new object classes can be created or existing object classes can be provided with changed attributes. If the schema changes, it is called the Extended Schema. eDirectory has several predefined object types:

* Tree object: This object is the root of all eDirectory objects of a directory tree and contains information about it, eg. B. Name of the tree. Below the tree object further objects can be arranged.
* Container objects: These objects are used to group other objects. By default, the objects Country (Country, C), Organization (Organization, O), and Organizational Unit (OU) are available. Below an OU object, further OU objects can be contained, as well as so-called leaf objects (see below).
* Leaf objects: These are server, user, user group, role, printer, printer queue, profile, and application objects. Furthermore, alias objects can also be defined to refer to existing objects in other sub-trees.




In an eDirectory tree, there is always an excellent root, which has a certain special status: it is determined by the first server installed in a tree. The certification authority (CA) of the tree runs on this server, which is a prerequisite for the integration of further eDirectory servers in the tree. The CA can later be moved to another eDirectory server. All other eDirectory installations must log in to the given eDirectory tree. The exact context in which the eDirectory server is integrated into an existing tree must be specified. It is very difficult to move the eDirectory servers later so the server context has to be planned in advance.

The first three eDirectory servers of a tree automatically receive a complete replica of the directory data, the others no longer - unless this is explicitly configured.

After a standard installation, an initially simple eDirectory structure exists, which is created by eDirectory and can then be changed according to the planning. Since eDirectory is primarily used for the management of IT resources, care should be taken when setting up the eDirectory tree structure so that the structure is primarily adjusted to administrative circumstances. If, instead, the organizational structure of the company is reproduced down to the smallest detail, this can lead to problems in the administration.

It is also important to ensure that the chosen tree structure is not too shallow so that replication between the eDirectory servers does not affect the entire tree. Failure of a single eDirectory server or the connection of that server to the rest of the system will otherwise result in error messages from all servers included in the replication ring.

The possible arrangements of eDirectory objects, ie. which object may contain which other objects, which attributes exist and from which attributes objects are assembled is defined by the so-called eDirectory schema. The schema set by eDirectory can be changed, but this seriously interferes with the directory structure, which can only be done after careful planning.

The eDirectory directory service provides the ability to synchronize XML data with other directory services through a synchronization mechanism. As an XML interface, the product DirXML is available. This consists of a kernel (engine) and various drivers for various supported target systems, eg. Lotus Notes, SAP R / 3, Windows 2000 Active Directory, Netscape (iPlanet), etc. There are two communication channels: On the one hand, the so-called Publisher Channel, under which foreign directory services can communicate changes to their data to the eDirectory , On the other hand there is the Subscriber Channel, with the help of which foreign registered directory services are informed of changes in the eDirectory.



The use of the DirXML interface definitely requires precise planning in order to avoid later undesired side effects, eg. Infinite loops.

In the context of eDirectory planning, the following aspects have to be considered:

* Which structure in organizational, organizational unit and other container objects should be selected?
* Which object classes are needed and which attributes should they have?
* Which users and servers should be summarized in which organizational units?


Every organization has to decide

* which administrator groups are required,
* which administrative model is implemented (central or decentralized administration),
* which administrative roles should exist within the tree structure,
* whether and to whom administrative tasks should be delegated,
* which security settings should apply to different types of servers and user groups,
* Which information can be accessed by whom via the various eDirectory interfaces (eg eDirectory clients, LDAP).


In general, the planned eDirectory structure must be documented. This contributes significantly to stability, consistent administration and thus to system security. It is recommended to note in particular:

* Which schema changes are made? The reasons for the change should also be documented.
* Which object classes are used in which way, especially which attributes are used for which contents?


For each eDirectory object should be documented:

* Name and position in the eDirectory tree (eg StandortBerlin, father object: OU branches Germany),
* what purpose the object serves,
* which administrative access rights are to be assigned for the object and its attributes (eg fully managed by Admin1),
* how to configure the inheritance of eDirectory rights, eg Blocking or filtering the inheritance of rights,
* which security equivalents should exist between objects.


The eDirectory administration and the used administrative model must be planned in any case. Especially the establishment of a role-based administration and the possibility of delegation of administration tasks are safety-critical. With meaningful, clear and consistent planning, the security administration can be made more transparent and efficient through these functionalities.

The use of eDirectory involves the operation of a separate, integrated certification authority (CA). Again, the planning must be based on the requirements and especially on the previously established security guideline.

In summary, the following safety-relevant core aspects arise in eDirectory planning:

* Trees limit the administrative power of administrators and the directory service itself.
* By default, when installing eDirectory for the first time, the Admin user is created within the organization container of the eDirectory tree. This has the so-called supervisor right to the entire tree.


* Administrative delegation is achieved by granting access to eDirectory objects and their attributes. The distribution of access rights must be done according to the administrative model. The access rights mechanisms in eDirectory include inheritance, inheritance control, accessibility scope, and security equivalence between objects. This makes it possible to set up very complex authorization structures that quickly become unclear and no longer administrable, which can lead to security gaps due to misconfigurations in eDirectory. The simplest possible authorization structure is therefore preferable.
* Schema changes are critical operations and may only be performed by authorized administrators after careful planning.


Finally, it should be noted that errors in the eDirectory planning and the underlying concepts after installation can be corrected only with considerable effort.



