#M 2.318 Secure installation of an IT system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

After completing the planning of a new IT system (see M 2.315 Server Deployment Planning or M 2.321 Planning the Use of Client-Server Networks) and establishing a security policy (see M 2.316 Setting a security policy for a general server relationship or M 2.322) security policy for a client-server network), you can start installing the system.

It is recommended to first create a short installation concept according to the functional requirements of the planning and the requirements of the security guideline. In principle, it is advantageous to carry out the installation in two phases: First of all, a basic system is installed and configured, then the other required services and applications are set up. The installation programs of most operating systems support this procedure more or less well.

The described steps do not necessarily have to be performed again for each IT system. This could even be counterproductive insofar as the constant repetition increases the risk of error. It is therefore recommended to carry out the steps described above with particular care on a reference system, to document the necessary configurations precisely and thus to obtain a customized installation concept for the respective operating system. It should be noted that this installation concept must also be checked and, if necessary, adapted to any changes to the operating system that do not represent a completely new release (service packs, update releases or similar).

In the case of virtual IT systems, a modified operating system is rarely installed for each instance; in this case, a basic system is usually created that is copied into the instance and started as a stand-alone clone. In this instance, the next step is to install the required server services or application programs, and at any later time, a new clone can be generated, for example, to obtain multiple instances of identical server services or application programs. This can also inherit wrong decisions and wrong settings that were made during the creation of the basic system when installing the clones on numerous other instances. For each individual clone, therefore, all recommendations of this measure should also be carefully implemented.



## Examples 
* Is there an installation concept that takes into account the functional requirements and safety-relevant requirements?
* Does the installation concept contain a regulation for the documentation of the installation and configuration?
* Does the installation concept include a scheme for offline installation and the use of trusted installation sources and media?




