#M 2.476 Concept for the secure internet connection
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

In the various types of institutions, there are various variants of internal and external networking. The connection of the internal IT systems and networks to the internet is almost everywhere. However, any connection to open external networks also carries risks, as this can be a potential gateway for malware, attempted attacks of all kinds and data outflows. The type of Internet connection and its reliable protection must therefore be carefully designed. Likewise, every new variant of Internet use should be planned carefully and all IT components and their networking should be securely installed and configured.

In a concept for the secure Internet connection, it must first be clarified how the internal IT systems are to be protected. The framework conditions for Internet use, such as who may use which Internet services and which regulations must be observed, must also be clarified (see M 2.457 Conception for Secure Internet Use). It is also necessary to agree on which types of Internet communication and which Internet services are generally permitted (see also M 2.459 Overview of Internet services). Depending on the goals that the institution associates with Internet use, the requirements for Internet connectivity, such as Internet access, change. For example, does the operation of a web server require a higher bandwidth and availability of the Internet connection than sporadic information search via web services.

The concept must be embedded in the general security strategy of the respective institution and must therefore be coordinated with information security management.



## Examples 
* The first zone comprises the internal network. It contains all client systems as well as all infrastructure and application servers that are required for autonomous, local LAN operation.
* The second zone contains the security gateway (see B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall)), which protects the LAN from attacks from the Internet. Furthermore, it houses the necessary servers for offering services on the Internet, which in turn are secured by packet filters, ie in so-called demilitarized zones. By means of a Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), an intermediary network formed at network junctions , the internal network structures can be protected. Only controlled accesses to the connected servers can take place. Services can be made available to both the WAN and the LAN. Using proxy servers, the two networks can be interconnected.
* The third zone includes the components for Internet connection. In the simplest case, it contains a single router connected to the network of an Internet service provider. For higher availability requirements, the connection must be redundant.
* In the management zone, all management data could be centrally collected and processed. Here, too, a time server could be accommodated, with which all system clocks in the network are synchronized.




