#M 2.377 Safe commissioning of VoIP components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If VoIP components, such as terminals or middleware, are to be taken out of operation or replaced, all safety-related information must be deleted from the devices. This does not only apply if devices are passed on to manufacturers, service companies, disposal companies or other third parties. Even when scrapping, relocating or passing on to other users, appropriate measures must be taken. In addition to the final commissioning, this also applies in particular to repairs, maintenance and warranty replacement.

In many cases, it is necessary to come to an early stage with manufacturers, dealers or service companies as to which measures for the deletion of safety-related information are compatible with the contract and guarantee conditions. Often, sensible approaches can be defined together here.

Depending on the intended use of the components, the following information, for example, can be stored on the devices:

* Listings, who phoned with whom,
* Time and duration of calls,
* Usernames and passwords for logging in to the VoIP infrastructure,
* Rights and privileges of each user
* E-mail addresses of each user for voice mail,
* Announcements for the answering machine,
* leave messages to users,
* IP addresses and other information that indicate the network buildup,
* Log files,
* Certificates and keys,
* Configuration files,
* personal telephone books,
* Organization-wide telephone directories with all employees,
* Passwords to settle private calls,
* Information about other services available to users, such as appointment reminders and
* in exceptional cases, the complete recording of the actual telephone calls.


Due to the need for protection of this information, it must be ensured that the data is deleted or made illegible before defective or outdated devices are taken out of service or replaced. After deleting the data, it must be checked whether the deletion was successful. The procedure depends strongly on the type and intended use of the device.

On normal computers, which were used as VoIP components, the hard disks should be deleted with a suitable tool so that no restoration of the files is possible. This can be done, for example, by starting the computer from an external boot medium and by overwriting the hard disks with random data. It is advisable to repeat the overwriting process several times.

For appliances, the procedure depends on whether the device has a hard disk installed or whether the data is stored in non-volatile memory. Often, the devices provide a factory reset option that resets all configuration settings to factory default values. Even after performing a factory reset, it should be checked whether the data was really erased or reset, or whether certain data or files are still present.

In addition to the information stored on the device itself, it should also be checked if the backup media contains sensitive information. If it is not necessary for other reasons (eg archiving, storage due to legal regulations) to keep the backup media, the media should also be deleted after the device has been taken out of service.

Often the components are labeled externally with names on speed dial keys, IP addresses, telephone numbers or other technical information. These labels should also be removed before disposal.



