#M 2.300 Safe commissioning or replacement of components of a security gateway
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If components of the security gateway are to be taken out of service or replaced, all safety-related information must be deleted from the devices. This applies in particular if the components are separated and passed on to third parties (for example, sold) or if a device is handed over to the manufacturer or a service company in the course of a warranty replacement or repair, but even if the devices do not Internte internally used or scrapped.

Depending on the intended use of the components, the following information and data, for example, can be stored on the devices:

* Configuration files that provide information about the organization's network structure (such as IP addresses, routing tables, SNMP community strings, access control lists, or similar)
* Password files
* Log files containing security-related information or personal information
* User data, for example from web cache or email spool directories
* potentially dangerous files (malware) from quarantine directories
* Certificates and keys (such as SSL certificates for SSL proxies or keys for SSH access)


Due to the sensitivity of this information, it must be ensured that the files are deleted or made illegible before they are taken out of service or replaced with defective or outdated devices. After deleting the data, it must be checked whether the deletion was successful. The procedure depends strongly on the type and intended use of the device. Responsibility should be defined in the security policy for the security gateway.

Depending on the device and intended use, the corresponding files may be stored in several different directories. For example, in ALGs the various configuration files are usually located in different places than the cache files, spool or quarantine directories. Before commissioning, it should therefore be clarified which security-relevant files are stored at which locations.

On normal machines that were used as components of the security gateway, the hard disks should be deleted with a suitable tool so that it is no longer possible to restore the files. This can be done, for example, by starting the computer from an external boot medium and by overwriting the hard disks with random data. It is advisable to repeat the overwriting process several times.

For appliances, the procedure depends on whether the device has a hard disk installed or whether the data is stored in non-volatile memory. Often, the devices provide a factory reset option that resets all configuration settings to factory default values. Even after performing a factory reset, it should be checked whether the data was really erased or reset, or whether certain data or files are still present.

If particularly safety-critical information is stored on the device and if it can not be guaranteed with sufficient certainty that the data has really been erased, it may be necessary to physically destroy the memory modules or hard disks or render them unusable ,

In addition to the information stored on the device itself should also be checked whether the backup media sensitive information is included. If it is not necessary for other reasons (eg archiving, storage due to legal regulations) to keep the backup media, the media should also be deleted after the device has been taken out of service.

Often the components of the security gateway are externally labeled with IP addresses, hostnames, or other technical information. These labels should also be removed before disposal.



