#M 2.172 Development of a concept for web offers
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Before a web offer is set up, it must first be presented in a concept which information and services are to be offered via web servers. The concept should contain at least one general and one organizational part:

The general part should describe

* what goals does the institution pursue with the web offer (is it a pure information offer, an e-commerce or an e-government offer?),
* which are the target groups of the web offer and
* which information or services are to be made available on the website.


The organizational part should give a rough overview of who is responsible for the institution

* the provision and updating of the information and
* the development and maintenance of the visual appearance of the website (web design).


The organizational part of the web concept should also specify who is responsible for the technical aspects of running the web server.

The concept for the web offer should be checked regularly for up-to-dateness. Changes in the goals or policies of the institution must be assessed to see what impact they have on the web concept.

When developing the concept, the following aspects should be considered:

A web offer can be used as a purely internal information service, as the center of an intranet, or as a public offer on the Internet, offering various services. Depending on the nature of the planned design, the security requirements that have to be set for the web server also differ. In a small institution where a web server operates as an intranet server without critical applications, the requirements are quite different than for a web server that is to be connected to the Internet, and perhaps even contains data that not everyone retrieves should be able.

If web services are to be offered both on the intranet and on the Internet, it is advisable to use two separate systems for this: an intranet web server and an internet web server. If the Internet web server is also to be connected to the internal network, the transition to the internal network must be protected by a firewall, see block B 3.301 Security gateway (firewall).

If it is intended that parts of the contents of the web server should come from a database, the connection to the database must also be included in the firewall concept for the web server. What has to be considered in the arrangement of information servers is described in M 2.77 Integration of Servers in the Security Gateway. When developing the concept for the web offer, it should be at least roughly determined how the connection to the Internet is regulated and what types of connections to the internal network are required.

Connection to the Internet may only be made once it has been verified that all risks can be mastered with the chosen web concept as well as the personal and organizational boundary conditions.

A web server for the presence of an institution on the Internet does not necessarily have to be operated by it itself. If the operating costs or the administration costs are too high or the residual risks too incalculable, the corresponding offers from Internet Service Providers or other service providers can be used to have a web server run by them. In this case, module B 1.11 Outsourcing must be taken into account.



