#M 2.129 Access control of a database
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to effectively protect the confidentiality and integrity of a database's data, a number of measures need to be implemented. In addition to an access control of the database, which is described in M .2.128 access control of a database, these are essentially the following possibilities of access control:



## Examples 
* In Microsoft Access, various authorizations can be granted, which refer either to the database itself (open / execute, exclusive, manage) or to the tables and queries (read data, update data, delete data, data pasting). These authorizations can then be assigned to different users or user groups. By default, Microsoft Access has the Administrators and Users groups, with the Users group containing the read data and data refresh permissions for tables and queries and the Open / Execute permissions for databases. For a more detailed control of the access rights, you can define your own groups to which different authorizations can be assigned.
* In an Oracle database, the commands CREATE ROLE and GRANT can be used to create the group Department_1 and grant the authorization. For example, you can connect to the database (connect), open a session (create session) and execute selection queries on specific tables (select). By assigning existing database users to the group department_1, these users receive all authorizations of the assigned user group. In this example, a user assigned only to the Department_1 group could only access the tables associated with the group and read only (select) but not modifying (insert, delete, update, etc.).
* A stored procedure under Oracle with PL / SQL statements has an input parameter that specifies the article number. The stored procedure searches all tables required to calculate the output parameters and returns, among other things, the item price. Users are given a right to use the access procedure only for the stored procedure, but no rights to the corresponding tables. This z. B. also prevents time-consuming search operations by a selection authorization directly to the associated tables.




