#M 2.7 Assignment of access authorizations
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT manager

Access privileges allow the data subject or an authorized representative to use certain IT systems or system components and networks. Access authorizations should be granted as restrictively as possible. These are to be specified for each authorized person on the basis of their function, taking into account the separation of functions (see M 2.5 Task distribution and separation of functions). According to the function the access to the computer has to be defined, eg. Access to the operating system (system administrator) or access to an IT application (user). In addition, it must be ensured that personnel and task-related changes are taken into account without delay.

Access to IT systems or IT applications should only take place after an identification (eg by name, user ID or chip card) and authentication (eg by a password or via an authentication token) of the authorized user m Be available and logged.

The issue or withdrawal of means of access such as user IDs or smart cards must be documented. Regulations on the handling of access and authentication means (eg handling of chip cards, password handling, see M 2.11 Control of password usage) must also be made. All persons entitled to access must be made aware of the correct handling of the means of access.

Access entitlements should be temporarily blocked by authorized persons in the event of lengthy absences, in order to prevent misuse, eg. in case of illness or vacation. This should be done at least for people with far-reaching permissions like administrators.

It is necessary to check sporadically the above specifications for their correct compliance.



