#M 2.535 Create a security policy for cloud usage
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer

The Cloud Usage Strategy (see M 2.534 Creating a Cloud Usage Strategy) already sets security requirements for the use of cloud services, depending on the level of detail. These must be further refined in the security guideline so that a desired cloud service is comprehensively defined (see measure M 2.536 Service definition for cloud services by the user) and a suitable cloud service provider (See measure M 2.540 Careful selection of a cloud service provider).

In principle, all security requirements arising from the identified interfaces as well as the organizational, technical and legal framework conditions must be considered as far as possible. In addition to the security requirements of the technology used, including the required communication channels and services, therefore, for example, data protection aspects as well as information classification aspects for all outsourced data must be taken into account. Organizational effects such as necessary training measures for administrators and users should also be taken into account in the security policy.

Furthermore, the following aspects in particular should find their way into the security policy for cloud usage:

* Security requirements for the cloud service provider should take into account the required technical availability of the service offered as well as the location of the service provision of the cloud service provider, provided that it operates its own data center. In addition, requirements with regard to existing organizational regulations and practiced processes at the cloud service provider (for example, compliance with the four-eye principle in administration) should be specified. Also regulations for the employment of foreign personnel fall under possible security requirements to the cloud service provider (see here measure M 2.226 regulations for the employment of foreign personnel). Other examples of security requirements for the cloud service provider are concrete specifications for data storage, data processing and data deletion. Also required certifications of the service provider (preferably after IT-Grundschutz) should already be documented in the security policy.
* Security requirements depending on the deployment model. If an institution uses cloud services that are provided by a hybrid cloud or a private cloud on-premise operated by a service provider, it must be determined which rights of use (for example, access rights, access rights, access rights to data and systems) the cloud service provider is the client.
* Safety requirements from relevant laws and regulations. Particular attention should be paid to cross-border or internationally active cloud service providers, which may be subject to different legal requirements and regulations.


The security requirements for the own institution are to be defined in a security concept for the cloud use, as described in the measure M 2.539 Creation of a security concept for cloud use. The institution has the opportunity here to create its own concept for each specific use case or to opt for an overall concept, with the help of which all or several cases of use are covered.



