#M 2.320 Regulated commissioning of a server
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If a server is to be taken out of service, this must not happen unprepared and without notification to the users, but a number of measures must be taken to ensure that

* no important data is lost,
* no services or systems dependent on the server are compromised, and that
* no sensitive data remains on the volumes of the server.


In particular, it is important to have an overview of what data is stored on the system, where it is accessed, and where it is accessed. On the basis of this information, a plan should be made for the commissioning of the server. The following points should be considered:

* Data backup Before the server is taken out of service, data that is still needed must either be externally backed up or archived (for example, on magnetic tape, CD or DVD ROMs) or transferred to a replacement system. After the backup, it should be checked that all data has been backed up correctly. Further information on this topic can be found in the blocks B 1.4 Data backup concept and B 1.12 Archiving.
* Replacement System If the services provided by the server continue to be needed, an adequate replacement system must be provided in a timely manner. Appropriate resources must be available for the corresponding planning, procurement and commissioning, see also M 2.319 Migration of a server.
* Information of usersIf the system is switched off without replacement, the users must be informed in good time of the imminent shutdown and, if necessary, be given the opportunity to save their own data.
* Removing References to the System When a system is taken out of service, references to the system must also be deleted. This includes, for example, the deletion of the DNS entry and the entries in other directory services as well as further references depending on the intended use. If, for example, a web server is taken out of service, then references to this server that are still contained in its own websites should be deleted.


* Deleting the data on the system to be switched offIt must be ensured that no more valuable information is available on the hard disks. It is not enough just to reformat the disks, but they have to be completely overwritten at least once. It should be noted that neither the logical deletion with the deletion functions of the operating system nor the reformatting of the disks actually removes the data from the hard disks. With suitable software, data can be reconstructed in such cases, often without much effort. Further information can be found in M 2.13 Proper disposal of valuable equipment and in M 2.167 Selection of suitable methods for deleting or destroying data.
* Deleting backup media After a system has been shut down, the corresponding backup media may also need to be deleted or rendered unusable if the data stored on it is no longer needed.
* Removing Other Information Often, server systems contain other data (such as configuration data) stored in non-volatile memory or are labeled externally (such as machine name, IP address, and other technical information). This information should be removed if possible before the device is redistributed, as an attacker may also be able to extract clues for possible attacks from such information.


It is recommended to use the recommendations given above to create a checklist that can be used when commissioning a system. In this way it can be avoided that individual steps are forgotten.



