#M 2.525 Create a security policy for storage solutions
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Using storage solutions as a central instance for data storage is essential for many processes and business processes of an institution. Safe and proper operation can only be ensured if planning, deployment, administration and operation of storage solutions are integrated into the existing safety specifications.

The central safety requirements and the level of security to be achieved result from the organization-wide security guideline. The requirements should be formulated in a specific security policy for storage solutions in order to concretise and implement the overarching and generally formulated security policy in the given context.

The basis for an appropriate definition of requirements that are expressed in the security policy is the documentation of the protection requirements of all data that is to be stored in a selected storage solution (M 2.362 Selection of a suitable storage solution). Only from this it is possible to deduce the requirements for availability, integrity and confidentiality of the data and according to which technical and organizational effort is appropriate.

If different storage solutions (eg SAN, NAS, object storage, cloud storage) are used in an institution, it may make sense for those responsible to create separate security policies for the individual application cases To be guided by the present measure.

Since DaSAN solutions contain a dedicated network, the creation of a security policy for SAN solutions must also take into account the M .2.279 creation of a security policy for routers and switches. It presents the general security precautions for IT components that allow access to information or other systems in an internal network. To create a security policy for NAS solutions, you should also consider the M .2.316 Setting a security policy for a common server. There the general security precautions for IT systems with a server function are presented. If cloud storage solutions are used, the requirements of M 2.535 Creation of a security policy for cloud usage from the B 1.17 cloud usage module must also be considered.

Other issues that need to be addressed in the storage solutions security policy are:



## Examples 
* Requirements for the technical infrastructure are to be developed in which storage components are set up. The infrastructure of the premises in which components of the storage solution are to be stationed must be suitable for meeting the availability requirements of the storage solution by means of appropriate power, grid and air-conditioning supplies. Similarly, access to these rooms should be adequately protected.
* There are requirements to be made that regulate the access of external persons (for maintenance purposes, for example). Since monitoring and maintenance contracts with suppliers of the storage components often require direct connection of the storage solution to monitoring systems of the manufacturer or supplier, it is necessary to determine how such accesses are controlled and logged.
* If a high level of protection is identified in terms of availability, the use of a disaster-tolerant SAN solution should be called for. For this purpose, the storage solution should be analyzed for single point of failure (SPoF), which in the event of a failure causes the system to fail completely. If a very high availability of the storage solution is required, the analysis of SpoFs must always be carried out. If new components are to be incorporated in a highly available SAN solution, their smooth integration must first be checked within special test systems.




