#M 2.360 Security audits and reporting on storage systems
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, auditor

The extent and frequency of security checks on storage systems are determined by the data processed on the respective storage system. For complex systems, where a large number of applications store their data on the storage system, an analysis of the business processes and a corresponding determination of the protection requirement must be made. For applications and data that support the essential business processes, the need for protection must be determined in order to meet the frequency and depth requirements of security audits. As usual, the strictest requirements of a single application dictate the overall system.

To monitor all security-related activities, a process must be set up. This must specify which security reports are created on a regular basis. Because storage systems can be complex, security reports need to compile and assess relevant observations from a variety of sources. In addition, it must be determined how deviations from the specifications are handled. The safety reports should be used as information for the auditor.



## Examples 
* There is a security concept for the technical design and organizational regulations of the storage system.
* The protection requirements of the stored data with regard to availability and confidentiality were defined and documented according to the specifications of the users.
* During commissioning, the standard passwords were replaced in all components (memory, backup devices, if necessary SAN switches), administration PC and additional software.
* All components (storage, backup devices, if necessary SAN switches) are stationed in access protected premises with adequate infrastructure (power supply, air conditioning).
* Administrative access to storage systems takes place exclusively  via a separate administration network.
* The administration network is protected by firewalls, anti-virus software and possibly an IDS.
* Only secure connections (eg via https, ssh) are used for administration.
* Access to the storage systems and their data is sufficiently protected and appropriately separated from the rest of the institutional network.
* The data is encrypted transported or stored, if this is necessary because of their protection needs.
* Logging is set so that error situations and attempted abuse are logged. The log files are checked regularly.
* Basic configuration and the following relevant changes of the configuration are documented in writing. A network plan of the topology of the storage systems and their connections to the LAN is available and up-to-date. This documentation is also available in case of emergency.
* After changes, security-relevant settings of the storage system are checked again.
* The trouble-free flow of data backups and the usability of backup media are regularly monitored.




