#M 2.310 Suitable selection of laptops
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Procurement, IT Manager

Laptops are available in various variants and device classes. These differ not only in their dimensions and performance features, but also the safety mechanisms and ease of use. In addition, they pose different requirements for hardware and software components in the application environment.

With the variety of different laptop models with different operating systems, compatibility problems with hardware, software on laptop and PC as well as interfaces are obvious.

Once it has been decided to use laptops within an institution, a list of requirements should be drawn up to evaluate the products available on the market. Based on the evaluation, the products to be procured should then be selected. Practice shows that due to various application requirements, it may make sense to select several device types for procurement. The variety of devices should be limited to simplify the support.

First, a requirement analysis should be carried out. The aim of the requirements analysis is, on the one hand, to determine all possible application scenarios in the specific case and, on the other hand, to derive requirements for the required hardware and software components.

The following list gives a rough overview of possible general evaluation criteria, but does not claim to be complete and can be extended to include further general requirements.



## Examples 
* Maintainability Is the product easy to maintain? Does the manufacturer offer regular software updates? Is the product offered the possibility of concluding maintenance contracts?
* Reliability / ResilienceHow reliable and fail-safe is the product? Is the product in continuous operation? Is there a built-in backup mechanism in the product? Can an automatic backup be performed?
* Ease of Use Can the product be easily installed, configured and used? Is the synchronization software configurable to minimize the burden on users of technical details? But is safety always guaranteed? Are dimensions and weight appropriate to the intended use? Is the battery life sufficient for the daily work?
* CostsHow high are the initial costs of the hardware and software, what are the estimated running costs of the hardware and software (maintenance, operation, support), what are the estimated running costs for the personnel (administrator / support)? M Do you need to purchase additional software or hardware components (eg docking station, conversion software)?




