#M 2.220 Guidelines for access control
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

In order to be able to use IT systems or system components and networks or to retrieve stored information there, the access or access control must be regulated. In addition to the access and access controls to be set up for the individual IT components, there should be an overarching guideline on this, in which the basic questions are regulated. The rules for access and access control must reflect the protection requirements of the authorities or the company. In particular, compliance with relevant laws, regulations and regulations, ie z. B. Privacy and copyright laws or licensing regulations, to refer.

It is advisable to specify standard rights profiles for authorized persons based on their functions and tasks (see also M 2.8 Assigning access rights). The user rights for access to files and programs must be defined depending on the respective role, the need-to-know and the sensitivity of the data. If rights are granted that go beyond the standard, this should be justified.

The access control policy should be available to all those responsible for IT applications. Based on this, access rules for the individual IT systems can be derived and set up.

For each IT system and IT application, there should be written access rules and the documentation of user setup and rights assignment (see M 2.30 User / User Group Setup). In doing so, the system- or application-specific features and safety requirements must be taken into account. Responsible for the creation and updating of the system- or application-specific specifications are the IT managers.

If employees are granted particularly extensive rights (eg to administrators), this should be as restrictive as possible. In this case, the privileged user should be restricted as far as possible and, on the other hand, only the rights required for the execution of the work should be assigned (see also M 2.38 Division of Administrative Activities). For all tasks that can be performed without extended privileges, privileged users should also work under accounts with standard rights.

Access to all IT systems or services must be secured by identification and authentication of the accessing user or IT system. When accessing from external networks strong authentication methods should be used, ie those z. B. based on the use of one-time passwords or the possession of chip cards.

The login process should not display any information about the IT system or the progress of the login procedure until it completes successfully. It should be noted that access is only allowed to authorized users. The authentication data may only be checked once it has been entered in full. Additional requirements for the authentication mechanisms can be found in M 4.133 Suitable selection of authentication mechanisms.



