#M 2.272 Establishment of an Internet editorial team
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT manager

A web offer requires regular care. Especially when content or services are offered that change more often, the maintenance effort will increase relatively quickly.

In the concept for the web offer (see M 2.172 Development of a concept for web offers) persons responsible for various aspects of the maintenance of the web offer are named. If the scope of the offer and the associated maintenance costs exceed a certain level, it may be useful to set up an independent Internet editorial office for better coordination. In this way, the responsibilities are emphasized once again and visibly reflected in the organizational structure.

The establishment of an Internet editorial office offers the advantage that a central contact is available for all questions concerning the web offer. Within such an editorial department, it is usually easier to establish efficient processes to ensure the up-to-dateness and correctness of the information on the website (for example, certain approval processes or a four-point principle), rather than having to do so across different organizational units.

The editors should at least include those persons who were named as responsible persons in the web concept. Often it makes sense to involve additional people in the editorial office. An Internet editorial office should include the following members:

* an editor-in-chief who assumes overall responsibility for the content and services on the website,
* one specialist editor for the various content areas,
* a person responsible for the visual appearance (web design) of the website,
* a technical webmaster who is responsible for the technical aspects of running the web server.


In addition to the content-related support of the contents of a web server, the tasks of the internet editorial staff may include the preparation of news articles, newsletters, RSS feeds or contributions for video platforms. If more extensive web applications are used, a contact person in the web server editorial staff should also be represented for these applications. The technical editors, the web designer and the technical webmaster serve as contact persons (interface) to the respective departments.

Within the Internet editorial department, procedures and responsibilities for the case of problems must be defined in addition to the normal editorial processes, so that a fast and efficient reaction to security incidents is ensured (see also M 2.173 Definition of a Web server security strategy).



