#M 2.30 Regulation for the creation of users / user groups
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Regulations for the establishment of users / user groups form the basis for an appropriate allocation of access rights and for ensuring an orderly and monitored operation.

There should be a form to request the required data from each user or for each user group:

* Name first Name,
* Proposal for the user or group identifier, if these are not prescribed by conventions,
* Organizational unit,
* Accessibility (eg telephone, room),
* if necessary project,
* if applicable, information on the planned activity in the system and the rights required for it, as well as the duration of the activity,
* restrictions on times, devices, pallet volume, access permissions (for certain directories, remote access, etc.), limited user environment,
* if necessary, approval of superiors.


If access rights are granted that go beyond the standard, this should be justified. This can also be done in electronic form by means of a special login whose name and password are communicated to the users to be set up. There, a corresponding program is run through, which ends with a logout. The collected data can be printed out for submission to the supervisor. A password that is communicated to a new user for initial system use must then be changed. This should be initiated by the system.

There should be a limited number of rights profiles. A new user is then assigned to such a profile and thus receives exactly the rights required for his / her activity. The system-specific options for setting up users and groups must be observed. It makes sense to specify naming conventions for the user and group names (eg user ID = short organizational unit || number).

Access to files should be restricted to users or groups of justifiable interest. If more than one person needs to access a file, a group should be set up for this. As a rule, each user must be assigned a separate user ID, so multiple users may not work under the same ID. For each user, a unique home directory must be created.

An administrative role should be created for the installation work in the system: The facility should be set up with the help of a special login under which a corresponding program or shell script is started. The responsible administrators can therefore only set up users or user groups in a defined manner, and they are not required to give them rights for other administration tasks.

This measure is supplemented under Unix by the following measures:

* M 4.13 Careful assignment of IDs
* M 4.19 Restrictive attribute assignment for Unix system files and directories
* M 4.20 Restrictive attribute assignment for Unix user files and directories


This action will be added to z / OS by the following measures:

* M .2.289 Use of restrictive z / OS identifiers
* M .2.297 Uninstallation of z / OS systems
* M 4.211 Use of the z / OS security system RACF


For other operating systems, the instructions described there must be implemented in a similar way (see also the operating-system-specific blocks).



