#M 2.580 Decommissioning of network components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

If network components of a LAN, such as routers or switches, are to be taken out of service or replaced, data that is still needed must either be externally backed up or archived or transferred to a replacement system. After the backup, it should be checked that all data has been backed up correctly. Further information on this topic can be found in the blocks B 1.4 Data backup concept and B 1.12 Archiving. In addition, all safety-related information must be deleted. This applies in particular if the components are separated and passed on to third parties (for example, sold) or if a device is handed over to the manufacturer or a service company in the course of a warranty replacement or repair, but even if the devices do not Internte internally used or scrapped.

Depending on the intended use of the network components, the following information and data, for example, can be stored on the devices:

* Configuration files from which information   can be taken about the network structure of the institution,
* Password files,
* Log files containing security-related information or personal information
* Certificates and cryptographic keys (eg for access to other IT systems)


In normal IT systems, the hard disks should be erased with a suitable tool so that it is no longer possible to restore the files. It is not enough just to reformat the disks, but they have to be completely overwritten at least once. Further information can be found in M 2.13 Proper disposal of valuable equipment and in M 2.167 Selection of suitable methods for deletion or destruction of data and in M 2.433 Overview of data erasure and destruction methods ,

If the IT system is an appliance, then deleting can be more difficult. For appliances, the procedure depends on where and how the data is stored, such as being stored on a built-in hard disk or in non-volatile memory. Often, the devices provide a factory reset option that resets all configuration settings to factory default values. Even after performing a factory reset, it should be checked whether the data was really erased or reset, or whether certain data or files are still present.

If particularly safety-critical information is stored on a network component and can not be guaranteed with sufficient certainty that the data has really been erased, then it may be necessary to physically destroy or render unusable hard disks or the memory components.

In addition to the information stored on the network component itself, it should also be checked if the backup media contains sensitive information. If it is not necessary for other reasons (eg archiving, storage due to legal regulations) to keep the backup media, the media should also be deleted after the device has been taken out of service.

Often the network components are labeled externally with IP addresses, hostnames or other technical information. These labels should also be removed before disposal.

It is recommended to use the recommendations given above to create a checklist that can be used when commissioning a system. In this way it can be avoided that individual steps are forgotten.



