#M 2.582 Possibilities to set up a management network
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The management network provides the communication links between the network or system management system and the managed components. There are different variants to choose from:

* Out-of-band: A separate, physical management network is built that is used exclusively to manage the network or system components. These must therefore be connected to the management network via an additional network interface.
* In-band: The network or system components are managed via the existing (data) network.
* Local: The network or system components are locally z. B.wait a console.
* Mixed management network: Critical network or system components are connected via an out-of-band management network and the other systems in the network are connected via in-band management.


Out-of-band management is the safest, but at the same time most complex variant of a management network. It recommends z. B.in active network components whose availability can be attacked, such as a perimeter router. Only then can the network component be communicated in the event of a denial of service attack.

For large networks, it is also advisable to think about an appropriate segmentation of the management network, for example to give network administrators access only to the area of ??the network for which they are responsible.

In-band management is widespread, as it does not require an additional network and additional interfaces to the network or system components. For this, the management communication should be protected, which can be ensured by a corresponding management protocol.

A purely local management of network or system components is only possible in very small networks, but then only in well-founded exceptional cases.

More specifically, the management of IT systems in the DMZ (Demilitarized Zone) of a security gateway using SNMP as the network management protocol. The rules defined for the security gateway should not be weakened for network management.

The easiest way to do this is to use an out-of-band network to communicate with the monitored components. If communication is in-band through the security gateway, the following should be noted:

Since often no UMP connections from a DMZ are to be allowed into the internal network, in-band communication via UDP between a manager in the internal network and components in the DMZ is out of the question. For this case, various manufacturers offer options to exchange management information over other connection-oriented protocols. In the absence of a uniform standard, reference is made to the manufacturer's information.

Stand: 15th EL Stand 2016



