#M 2.378 System Development
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user, IT manager

System development takes place in the sense of this measure when hardware, software or a complex system consisting of several software and hardware components is to be created, changed or supplemented.

In all these cases, this project must be coordinated with the IT management and the relevant specialist departments prior to implementation. For this, a first overview of the required services and requirements must be formulated. The safety management has to be informed already at this early stage about the project of a system development, so that the relevant safety aspects can already be taken into account with the conception. In addition to the services that the system should provide, the potential impact on business processes and information security in the organization must be considered.

The security requirements of an IT system should be determined and agreed before the development begins. Subsequent implementation of security measures is significantly more expensive and generally provides less protection than security integrated into the system development process or product selection process from the outset. Security should therefore be an integral part of the entire lifecycle of an IT system or product.

The recommendations listed here are based on the planning and execution of IT projects in the federal administration (V-Modell) as well as partly on the specifications of the Information Technology Security Evaluation Criteria (ITSEC) and the Common Criteria for Information Technology Security Evaluation ( CC).

For the preparation of the requirements the measure M 2.80 Creation of a requirement catalog for standard software is to be considered. It explains the essential points that must be taken into account when determining the functional and safety-relevant requirements.

The catalog of requirements must be coordinated with the safety management. If changes in requirements occur during system development, security management must also agree to them and the requirements catalog must be updated. The catalog of requirements forms the basis for acceptance and release of the product.



## Examples 
* Requirements definition,
* Architectural or drawer design,
* Fine-draft and
* To be realized.




