#M 2.369 Regular safety-related maintenance of a Windows Server 2003
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Maintenance serves to maintain the value of a Windows Server 2003 or to maintain its functions and intended usability. It may only be performed by competent and authorized personnel and may be part of a warranty. When carrying out maintenance, the requirements of measure M 2.4 for maintenance and repair work must be taken into account, especially when using external personnel.

Maintenance is carried out regularly and on the basis of a maintenance plan, generally outside of normal operation. If you use a network load balancing cluster (Network Load Balancing, NLB), maintenance is possible without interrupting normal operation. Maintenance includes configuration, cleaning, inspection and renewal of wear parts, hardware enhancements and minor defects. The manufacturer's instructions must be observed (see M 2.213 Inspection and maintenance of the technical infrastructure).

This resolves detected errors, implements customizations and updates, and optionally provides new features and applications through extensions. The extensions may only be made after sufficient testing and approval. Changes to the server must be documented.

Maintenance requirements and their execution are to be coordinated by the person responsible for maintenance, usually the responsible administrator (see block B 1.9 Hardware and software management) and to be documented (measure M 2.34 Documentation of ver Changes to an existing system).



## Examples 
* Does the regular maintenance under Windows Server 2003 include the checking of the patch level, as well as a regular check of the hardware?
* Has a maintenance plan been created for each Windows Server 2003 and aligned with security policy requirements?
* Are performed maintenance properly documented?
* Are the required warranty and maintenance agreements still valid and up to date?




