#M 2.460 Regulated use of external services
Responsible for the initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer, IT manager, organization manager

Responsible for implementation: employees

Over the Internet, a variety of attractive services are offered, which facilitate not only privately, but also in the working world, the collaboration in teams or work easier. These include, for example, webmail services, group diaries, remote assistance software, Internet word processing systems, online office programs, address book management, data storage and much more. Many of these services are straightforward to use and can help with a variety of different processes in an institution.

In principle, all employees should be aware that they can only use external services shared by their institution. The use of external services for own use, as well as for the installation of non-released software, can lead to a variety of security and data protection problems (see G 3.105 Unauthorized use of external services). ,

Employees must be informed about the issues and security risks that unauthorized use of such services may entail. This can be addressed, for example, in the context of suitable internal events, or be picked up by hints in the intranet with concrete examples. The tools for IT-Grundschutz contain a sample of employee information on the unauthorized use of external IT services, which can serve as a useful basis for a corresponding publication.

In general, however, the institution should also search for causes and solutions if employees want to use external services for job support. For example, it could be considered whether the internal IT department can provide a comparable service quality or whether a user contract can be concluded with a trusted provider.



