#M 2.395 Requirements analysis for IT cabling
Responsible for initiation: Planner, Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT, Planner

When analyzing the requirements that influence the future-proof, needs-based and cost-effective implementation of IT cabling, various issues must be dealt with.

The most common question is the amount of data throughput required. In it, the short-term planned use by the users in the institution and, based on this, the longer-term development of the IT use is estimated.

Two developments have to be considered:

For one thing, bandwidth is getting cheaper and cheaper. The result is that services offered and purchased by third parties place ever greater demands on the capacity of IT cabling. After IT-typical services such as e-mail and WWW, voice and image transmission right through to digital TV are now becoming the content of IT network services. The increasing demand for bandwidth must be taken into account when selecting the quality of the IT cabling.

Secondly, the IT network becomes a carrier for more and more applications. Any applications that can use the protocols and standards of the IT world are likely to use them. This means that an IT network and thus IT cabling will no longer serve as a vehicle for communication between computers. Telephony and applications, which have so far relied on their own, application-specific network technology, are being further developed to use uniform IT technology. These foreseeable developments mean that the number of connections must be planned accordingly and that no part of a building can be left out when planning an IT cabling. In addition, the internal cabling of a building must be designed to be flexible and expandable, because a change in the use of rooms or building components will at the same time also represent a change in the requirements for the grid connection.

Despite standardization of the technique, it is sometimes necessary to schedule separate or separate cables for particular applications. It will be appropriate or even necessary to use separate cables and switching technology for such applications, especially in particularly safety-relevant application areas, such as alarm-giving technology or in the control of machines and systems. If the application areas have different protection requirements and can not be protected in another way (eg with VPNs), a separation should generally take place.



## Examples 
* Is there a requirement analysis for IT cabling that takes into account different application areas as well as the aspects of availability, integrity and confidentiality?




