#M 2.266 Regular renewal of technical archive system components
Responsible for initiation: archive administrator, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, archive administrator, IT manager

Archive systems must be kept up-to-date over a long period of time. In the field of information technology, standards for hardware and software as well as data formats for digital storage in the past have only lasted for a short time in comparison to the planned periods of archiving. It can be assumed that this will continue to be the case in the future, as the standards are largely determined by technical progress.

Hardware components are also subject to wear and tear and must therefore be regularly maintained and replaced if necessary. In addition, it can be expected that manufacturers will discontinue unexpectedly the support of existing systems or, for example. due to bankruptcy, are no longer able to provide long-term support.

It is therefore to be expected that the components of the archive will have to be renewed regularly and that under certain circumstances a migration of the complete data stock to a new archive system is necessary.

This process is closely linked to the measure M 2.261 Regular Market Observation of Archive Systems.

New hardware and software must always be extensively tested prior to installation in a running archive system in order not to endanger the stability of the existing system (see also M 4.65 Testing new hardware and software). When installing new media and drives, ensure compatibility with existing systems and media. Before commissioning new components or introducing new data formats, a migration concept describing all changes and tests must be prepared. The archiving concept (see M 2.243 Development of the archiving concept) may have to be adapted. In the case of major changes, the planning phase described in the block description must be run through again.

When changing formats, it must be checked whether the conversion of legacy data into the new formats also necessitates the archiving of the data in its original format due to legal requirements.



