#M 2.449 Minimal use of console access to virtual IT systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Many common solutions for virtualizing IT systems offer the option of either logging into the virtualization software locally on the virtualization server or over a network from a remote workstation using client software (eg Citrix XenCenter or VMware Console). This client software is used to set up the virtualization software on the virtualization server, as well as to maintain and monitor it. However, server virtualization products also need to be used to access the virtual machine consoles. Due to the architecture of the virtual IT systems, these products can usually not be realized otherwise because a virtual IT system does not have a physical console. In this way z. B. The operating state of a virtual machine can also be monitored during the boot process.

Virtual IT systems are made up entirely of virtual hardware components for server virtualization. These devices, such as network cards, mass storage devices and graphics cards, must be emulated (emulated) by the virtualization software. When emulating network cards and mass storage devices, the commands of the virtual IT systems can usually be easily transmitted to the respective physical devices. They do not have to be completely emulated. However, video cards generally need to be completely emulated by the virtualization software. For performance reasons, therefore, the virtual existence of the graphics card is only pretended to the virtual IT system. Only when accessing the console interface of a virtual IT system, the actual emulation is started in software. This typically ties up significant processor and memory resources on the virtualization server.

Because console accesses to the virtual IT systems have a significant impact on the performance of the virtualization server management software, they should be kept to a minimum.

Virtual IT systems should therefore not as possible via direct console access, but preferably over the network, z. via SRDP or X Window via SSH tunneling.



