#M 2.180 Set up a fax post office
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to ensure the smooth operation of the fax server (s), a fax post office has to be set up and a fax manager must be named. The fax post office has to perform various organizational and technical tasks, which also depend on the operating mode of the fax server.

Since the employees of the fax post office generally have access to all incoming and outgoing fax transmissions, the selection of the personnel must be as demanding as is necessary for administrators.

The fax post office must also work closely with those responsible for the other communications services (in particular e-mail and telecommunications equipment).

The fax post office should be accessible to all users at all times. In the context of representation arrangements, it must be ensured that the fax post office is permanently staffed.

Typical tasks of a fax server post office are:

* Administration of the fax server application. This includes: setting up new users, assigning authorizations to users and user groups, resetting passwords, checking the communication connections, evaluating the resulting logs, the user's point of contact in case of problems, maintaining the central address books and Distribution lists, performing backups, unless this is the task of the administration of the operating system,
* Fax delivery and archiving,
* Troubleshooting fax delivery,
* Coordination of the cooperation with TK-Anlagen- and E-Mail-responsible persons.


After all, the fax client software on the workstations should also be looked after. This task can be performed both by the fax post office and by the organizational unit that manages the workstations.

Special attention should be paid to the tasks related to the fax inputs, as they depend on the operating mode of the fax server.



## Examples 
* The sender has used a wrong extension.
* The recipient is no longer a member of the institution.
* The automatic forwarding of incoming faxes is based on the sender ID (CSID) and the sender is not yet known in the institution or there is no corresponding assignment rule.




