#M 2.12 Support and advice for IT users
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

The use of IT systems requires comprehensive training of IT users. In addition to the training that enables IT users to use the information technology they use, there is a need for support and advice for IT users for the problems that occur during operation. These problems can result from hardware failures or software installation errors, but also from operator errors. All users should know the location or people they can contact in case of IT issues. The IT support should also include information on potential security problems and to those responsible, eg. the security management team, forward.

In larger institutions, it may therefore make sense to entrust a central office with the support of IT users and to make them known to all employees. This need may prove practicable, especially with a large number of distributed systems such as PCs. It's important to ensure that IT support is available during user hours to help resolve IT issues in a timely manner. Since working hours allow users to be at their workstations at irregular times, service times should be set to meet the needs of the institution and should be based on times when most of the time spent working in the workplace would be timely Employees work.

A telephone hotline should be set up to support IT users, as many problems can be resolved by telephone faster than by written mail. A support only by e-mail is not sufficient, because in case of failure of an IT system, the network or the participating servers, the problem may not be described in this way.



