#M 2.346 Use of the SAP documentation
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, developer, IT manager

SAP provides a variety of documents and information. In particular, the available documentation must be known to administrators and regularly checked for updates.

SAP provides information centrally through the SAP Service Marketplace (http://service.sap.com). It should be noted that for access JavaScript must be activated in the browser and usually an authentication must take place. One exception is the SAP Help Portal, which provides the product documentation.

The SAP Service Marketplace refers to additional sources of information. Here are some examples:

* SAP Notes or additional software are offered via the SAP Service Marketplace. Also important here are the security-relevant information that can be found under the Quicklink / security. Here you can also subscribe to the SAP Security Newsletter, which distributes security-relevant information via e-mail. Also important are the SAP product security guides, which are offered under the quicklink / securityguide. In the present context, the SAP NetWeaver security guide is particularly relevant.
* The SAP Help Portal (http://help.sap.com) provides instructions and comprehensive documentation for all products.
* The SAP Developer Network (http://sdn.sap.com) is intended as a source of information for developers. Here is a free registration necessary.


In the following, the relevant SAP documents for the individual measures of this module are given. Unless otherwise specified, the documents can be found in the SAP Help Portal.



## Examples 
* SAP Document RFC Security Guide, section Authorization Object S_TABU_DIS (Table Maintenance)
* Documentation of the introductory guideline (IMG, transaction SPRO) under SAP Web Application Server / System Administration / Users and Authorizations / Row-Related Authorizations
* SAP Document Authorizations in SAP HR in the Cross-Application Authorization Objects section




