#M 2.440 Suitable selection of a Windows version for clients as of Windows Vista
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Client operating systems from Windows Vista are available in different versions for private users as well as for companies, authorities and other institutions. The versions differ in terms of their functionality, the price and the supported license models.

For the home user, Microsoft has designed the following versions of Windows clients:

* Windows Vista Starter
* Windows Vista Home Basic
* Windows Vista Home Premium
* Windows Vista Ultimate
* Windows 7 Starter
* Windows 7 Home Basic
* Windows 7 Home Premium
* Windows 7 Ultimate
* Windows 8
* Windows 8 Professional
* Windows 8 RT


For use in enterprises, government agencies, and other institutions, Microsoft recommends one of the following versions of Windows clients:

* Windows Vista Business
* Windows Vista Enterprise
* Windows Vista Ultimate
* Windows 7 Professional (replaces the Business Edition of Windows Vista)
* Windows 7 Enterprise
* Windows 7 Ultimate
* Windows 8 Professional
* Windows 8 Enterprise


In addition, there are the so-called Windows Vista and Windows 7 N versions in Europe. These do not include Microsoft Media Player. Microsoft Media Player can be used to play digital media such as pictures, audio, and video.



## Examples 
* Has a suitable operating system version for Windows clients on Windows Vista been selected that contains all the required functions?
* Are 64-bit versions preferred in coordination with hardware and software planning?
* Was the selection of the appropriate Windows version justified and documented?




