#M 3.14 Instruction of the personnel in the regular procedure of the information transfer and the data medium exchange
Responsible for initiation: Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible

Employees must be sufficiently informed as to which framework conditions and restrictions must be adhered to when passing on information (see M 2.45 Regulation of data medium exchange). Inadequate instruction may result in a variety of security issues. This includes, for example, informing employees about

* with which communication partners which information can be exchanged (see M 2.42 definition of the possible communication partners),
* which types of data carriers are permissible for data medium exchange and how these are to be protected,
* that the identity of the communication partner should be checked before confidential information is passed on.


In addition, the basic steps for the expiration of a data medium exchange must be fixed and published, eg. on the intranet. Employees are required to comply with the regulations.

In addition, employees involved in data exchange should be made aware of the specific hazards before, during and after transport. Accordingly, these employees should be made fully acquainted with the safety measures to be followed.

Before reading in digital data carriers that were in the mailbox, even though they were not expected, the specified senders should ask if they have actually sent the data carriers (see also M .2.224 Prevention of malicious programs). If the sender is unknown, the security management should be informed if no other rules have been adopted by the management level for this case.

If certain IT-supported procedures are used to protect the data during the exchange (such as encryption or checksum procedures), the responsible staff must be sufficiently familiarized with the handling of these procedures.



