#M 3.31 Training system architecture and security of Exchange systems for administrators
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Microsoft Exchange integrates heavily with the Active Directory of a Microsoft Windows system environment. Active Directory is the central configuration database of Windows network infrastructures, which stores user data, group affiliations, and other administrative data. The administration of Microsoft Exchange therefore requires knowledge of Active Directory and its basic concepts, otherwise misconfigurations can easily occur that can have significant security implications. Training the administrators in this area is therefore essential (see also M 3.27 Active Directory Administration Training).

When you install Microsoft Exchange on a Windows server, a schema extension is made on the schema master to create specific Exchange objects and additional attributes to existing objects. Microsoft Exchange requires the continued availability of a Global Catalog Server offered in every Active Directory site. In addition, the network services (especially DNS) must be set up and functional.

Then the settings for the external connection must be made. The respective protocols are to be activated and corresponding rules must be defined on the affected security gateways. Finally, user accounts and groups have to be configured.

However, the described aspects only apply to the server component of the Microsoft Exchange system. In addition, the correct administration of the client components is important for the overall system.

In accordance with the procedure outlined above, this results in a series of administrative tasks that have to be carried out by one or more specialized administrators. An intensive training of the administrators and their deputies on Microsoft Exchange and Outlook is therefore particularly important for the smooth functioning of the system. The training of administrators should at least cover the following topics:



## Examples 
* Overview of the security mechanisms of Windows server operating systems
* Security Management (MMC snap-in)
* Active Directory (see M 3.27 Active Directory Management Training) and DNS
* Trust relations between domains
* Possibilities of access control on server




