#M 3.94 Measurement and evaluation of learning success
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources, Supervisors

Information security learning outcomes should be measured and evaluated by target group to determine the extent to which the objectives described in the awareness-raising and training programs have been achieved (see M 2.312 Designing an Information Security Training and Awareness Program and M 2.557 Designing an Information Security Training Program). This makes it possible to obtain a detailed overall picture and thus to carry out selective corrective measures if individual goals have not been achieved.

The human resources department often has good experience in the evaluation of training measures. Therefore, it is advisable to follow this procedure and to coordinate with the HR department.

To test the learning success, the following possibilities can be used:

Documentation of awareness-raising or training activities

The documentation of all measures including a brief description of the contents and the execution cycles provide a first overview of the scope and affected target groups of the activities carried out.

Documentation of the number of participants in awareness-raising or training measures

The documentation of the number of participants of training or the number of employees reached by sensitization measures per department, area, location, etc. provide an indication of the achieved penetration of the measures in the institution.

Number of inquiries to security contact persons (see M 3.46 Contact for security questions)

If, after training or awareness raising, the number of contacts with security contact persons increases, this can be taken as an indication of greater employee sensitivity, but also as a result of the increased awareness of the organization.

training reviews

A first qualitative overview of the training successes is provided by standardized training assessment forms, which are usually completed by the participants at the end of an event. In addition to questions about the procedure, the organization of the event or the approach of the speaker, questions about the benefit assessment by the participants can be incorporated here.

Test for training completion

Knowledge tests conducted during or after a training session are field-tested methods for learning success monitoring. Adapted to the respective event content, questions about learned knowledge as well as questions about the assessment of described situations can form the basis.

Knowledge test at a time interval

In order to determine the course of learning curves after training sessions, further tests can be carried out after the end of training at specified times. Since there is no direct link to the event, it can be difficult to motivate the participants to answer knowledge questions. To counteract this, this test can also be performed in quiz form, z. B.with prices for the participants.

employee surveys

Employee interviews with standardized questionnaires can be used to gather information on whether non-school awareness-raising measures are also effective.

Number of rule links

Another way of assessing whether a measure was successful is to count the number of rule relationships before and after the sensitization measures. Responsible persons can also consciously and controlledly place security gaps and then observe how employees handle it. For example:

* Foreigners without an employee ID who walk around the institution unaccompanied
* DVDs, CDs or USB sticks that are displayed at various places in the institution
* E-mails sent to employees with attachments or links to unknown websites but with familiar sender addresses or
* Door locking functions that are blocked.


It is important to interpret the results never as misconduct of individual employees, but as results of groups.

Social penetration tests / social engineering audits

In order to test a learning success in the context of social engineering prevention, it is advisable to carry out social penetration tests or social engineering audits. In the role of an external attacker, an attempt is made to exploit employee misconduct and obtain information that helps the tester reach the intended targets.

However, these types of audits are always controversial, as employees who were selected as targets without their knowledge could view the evaluation as a breach of trust or a deadlock after a successful attack. On the other hand, such audits provide good insights into how information security is really lived. Therefore, the use of this method should be examined on a case-by-case basis and weighed up with the staff representatives and the management.

Practical exercises

As an alternative to the social penetration tests described, practical exercises can also be used. Different variants are possible here, which provide an overview of the level of awareness and training. Subsequent to training sessions, exercise sequences can be constructed in which situations are playfully depicted, for example a social engineering attack. The task for volunteers from the group would be to respond to this attack. An anonymous assessment of the exercise by the seminar instructor provides information on the learning success of previous measures.

Tools and games

Educational games or tools of any kind also provide the opportunity to evaluate scores or results in most cases.



