#M 3.38 Administrator training for routers and switches
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

For the safe operation of routers and switches, it is important that all work is done by personnel who are able to make the best use of all the features and security features offered. Therefore, it is essential that the administrators are trained accordingly.

The training should provide sufficient knowledge of the procedures, tools and techniques required to set up and operate routers and switches. This also applies to manufacturer-specific aspects of the selected product. This brief describes training requirements that enable administrators to install and operate routers and switches in a typical environment.

The training should provide the basics, concepts and knowledge of the setup, operation, maintenance and troubleshooting commands. Training should be a balanced mix of theory and practice.

Even if the tasks are distributed in a group of administrators so that each administrator has only one specific area of ??responsibility, it is essential that all administrators have a general basic knowledge. Based on this, the individual focal points can be purposefully expanded and maintained. For many products there is an extensive offer of manufacturers and specialized suppliers for this purpose on building on each other and individually deepening seminars. The supply of qualified training is also a criterion that should be taken into account when deciding on a particular manufacturer.

For training purposes, a budget should already be planned for the procurement of IT components and a training plan for administrators should be created. The contents of a training should include the following:

* BasicsISO / OSI Layers Model Network Topographies / Topologies and Transmission TechniquesCablingActive Network ComponentsBasic Principles of IP and Related Protocols (IP Addressing, Subnetting, IP, ICMP, TCP, UDP) Overview of Manufacturers and Products
* Switching Functionality of a SwitchCut Through and Store and ForwardTransparent Bridging Function (IEEE 802.1d) Spanning Tree Algorithm (IEEE 802.1d) VLAN (VLAN Types, Tagging, IEEE 802.1q)
* Routing Functionality of a Router Static and Dynamic Routing Dynamic Routing Protocols (RIPv1, RIPv2, OSPFv2, BGPv4, IGRP, EIGRP)
* WAN connectivityBasics of WAN technologies and protocolsVersion types (fixed and dial-up connection) Virtual Private Networks (VPN) Wide Area Connections (xDSL, ISDN) WAN Protocols (PPP, Frame Relay)
* Facility Assembly and cabling Setup and configuration of routers and switches (focus: operating system)
* OperationManagement of the devices, ToolsIntegration in Network Management Systems (NMS) Logging (syslog) Backup and administration of configuration files
* TroubleshootingFault Sources and CausesMessage and Analysis ToolsTest Strategies for Troubleshooting Requirements for Secure Network Installations
* Information securityBased information security and security aspects relevant to routers and switchesAuthentization, authorizationCrypto procedures and applicationsAttention scenarios (denial of service attacks, ARP spoofing, IP spoofing) Source of danger Default settingsCorrect measures, response and analysis Incident handling




