#M 3.84 Introduction to Exchange Systems
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user, IT manager

The main focus of Groupware is the support of groups for cooperation, scheduling, coordination and daily communication. The groupware solution from Microsoft consists of the Microsoft Exchange server and Microsoft Outlook. The Exchange server is a news management system that also provides workflow support capabilities: it is intended, among other things, for internal and external exchanges in medium to large authorities or companies of news, such as E-mails. Messages can be managed, delivered, filtered and sent using Exchange. Likewise, typical communication applications such as newsgroups, calendars and task lists as well as unified messaging are offered and managed by Exchange.

Microsoft Outlook is a groupware client that is part of the Microsoft Office suite. In addition to the pure e-mail functions, it offers a number of additional functions, the Geschftsftsabwicklungen, such. As communication and messaging, in companies and authorities should facilitate.

In the following, the term "Microsoft Exchange systems" refers to the combination of an Exchange server and connected Outlook clients. In the following, the presentation is limited to typical installations that are frequently encountered in practice.



## Examples 
* Microsoft Exchange 2010 has been optimized for the deployment scenarios in which the Exchange services operate within an institution, called on-premise installations, as well as those in which the Exchange services are on-demand as an external service, Exchange Online to be provided. Microsoft itself operates data centers where Exchange Online is operated and offered. However, the optimization goes as far as allowing on-premise installations to work seamlessly with Exchange Online; This makes the integration of separate Exchange organizations and the scalability through the purchase of Exchange Online services extremely flexible. Another highlight is the integrated archiving function for e-mails: this ensures uniform protection of information and adherence to guidelines in the e-mail archive; The new feature makes it easy to store and retrieve emails across the enterprise or the entire agency using the intuitive Exchange interface.




