#M 3.56 Training of the administrators for the use of VoIP
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Telephony, independently of the PBX's underlying technology, is the organization's communication base. Therefore, it is imperative that administrators are sufficiently trained to be able to make the most of the required features and security features ,

The training should provide sufficient knowledge of the procedures, tools and techniques required to set up and operate the VoIP components. This also applies to vendor-specific aspects of individual products that are used as VoIP components.

For the efficient use of VoIP, detailed knowledge of networks is required. These must also be taught during the training. Often, the VoIP components are used on standard IT systems with standalone operating systems. Information on this training component can be found in the respective IT-Grundschutz modules for the operating systems.

In general, the appropriate training should include at least the following:

* Fundamentals of VoIP - compression and transmission of voice messages with possible effects such as jitter, delay and echo
* Basics of the application layer protocols used (eg RTP, SIP and H 3.23)
* AdministrationSafety-relevant basics and concepts of administration, knowledge of commands for setup, operation, maintenance and troubleshooting for each VoIP component. Training should be a balanced mix of theory and practice. Knowledge about the administration of the IT systems on which the VoIP components are to be operated. Overview of relevant legal aspects in VoIP operation such as: B. Data ProtectionManagement of Devices, ToolsProtocol Backup and Administration of Configuration DataActivation Scenarios (eg Denial of Service Attacks, ARP Spoofing, IP Spoofing, DNS Spoofing, Viruses and other Malware) Basics of Virtual Private Networks (VPN) Basics for handling encrypted data (eg encryption with SRTP or IPSec) and options for handling encrypted data
* Network technologyBasic structuring of networks and services Basic principles of IP and the protocols based thereon (IP addressing, ICMP, TCP, UDP) Virtual network segmentation (VLAN)
* TroubleshootingFault sources and causesMeasuring and analysis tools, tools for automatic checking of the individual components of the security gateway for correct function test strategies for troubleshooting


Even if the tasks are distributed in a group of administrators, it is essential that all administrators have a general knowledge base. Based on this, the individual focal points can be purposefully expanded and maintained. To many products there are from the manufacturers or specialized offerers a comprehensive offer at successive and individually deepening seminars. The supply of qualified training is also a criterion that should be taken into account when deciding on a particular manufacturer.

For training, a sufficient budget should already be provided for the procurement of IT components and a training plan should be created for all administrators.



