#M 3.95 Learning material safety
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, supervisor

In the conception of awareness-raising and training programs for information security, the securing of learning is particularly important, since only permanently valid knowledge leads to the desired behavioral changes. After awareness-raising and training activities, participants are usually equipped with a lot of new knowledge and skills. If they do not retrieve or apply this knowledge after the event, they may forget it in whole or in part. In order to permanently improve the awareness of information security among employees, the content of awareness-raising and training measures should be regularly repeated or applied. This will be supported by the learning material assurance that will be provided during the course, at the end of a course and thereafter.

The selection of measures to secure learning material must be coordinated with the respective organizational culture and size.

Examples of measures for learning security are:

* written or oral tests during the training and / or graduation,
* Quiz questions with opportunities to pay for training content,
* Intranet-based surveys on the contents of the training courses,
* Use of team meetings etc. to discuss current aspects of information security,
* Performance of planned or role-playing games (see M 3.47 Implementation of Information Security Planning Games),
* regular repetition of seminars,
* short notes on the intranet,
* supplementary short lectures, z. Eg in the context of other internal events.




