#M 3.60 Raising employee awareness about the safe handling of mobile data carriers and devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Increasingly, a wide variety of types of mobile data carriers are being used in government agencies and businesses. Likewise, the number of devices that, in addition to their obvious function, can also be used as mobile data carriers is increasing. This increases the number of possible distribution channels for information as well as the number of possible security gaps. Although some of these security risks can be minimized technically, without the involvement of employees in the safe and proper handling of mobile data carriers, authorities or companies will constantly be overwhelmed by technical innovations.

All employees should be informed about the types and applications of mobile data carriers and devices. This also means that they are informed about the different types and variants, so that, for example, an MP3 player is a mobile data carrier. In addition, employees should be informed about potential risks and problems of use, as well as about the benefits, but also the limits of the security measures used. Employees should be regularly informed about new dangers and aspects of mobile data carriers and devices, eg. Via corresponding articles on the intranet or in the employee magazine.

Users should be advised of how to use the mobile data carriers and devices with care to prevent loss or theft or to ensure a long service life. For example, questions about storage outside of the office or home, as well as sensitivity to excessive or too low temperatures, should be addressed. Damage or losses should be reported promptly (see M 2.306 loss report).

Other aspects that users should be aware of are:

* which data may be stored on mobile data carriers and which may not (see also M 2.217 Careful classification and handling of information, applications and systems),
* how the data stored on these mobile data carriers are protected against unauthorized access, manipulation and loss,
* How to securely erase data on mobile data media and how to dispose of data media.




