#M 3.74 Training on system architecture and security of groupware systems for administrators
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

In order to be able to administrate a groupware system correctly and safely, the training of the responsible administrators is indispensable. Even small configuration errors can lead to system security being compromised. For this reason, administrators must be adequately trained in the system architecture and especially in the specific security mechanisms of the groupware used.

The operation of groupware systems is complex and many areas are involved. It is therefore important to ensure that the operator receives the training required for his job. For this purpose, the recommendations from M 3.11 Training of maintenance and administration personnel must be observed.

In addition, administrators should be trained to participate in training activities, such as seminars or user conferences. It should be considered to define the training according to a training plan.

The administrators should be trained in all security related areas of the groupware system. In addition to an overview of the security functions of the groupware components used, these include aspects such as

* Current dangers of groupware systems. B.Dialial-of-service attacks, malware, hazard default settings, etc.
* Overview of SMTP security
* Defense against malicious software and spam (development and integration of anti-spam and anti-virus solutions)
* Overview of relevant legal aspects of groupware administration, such as: data protection
* Dealing with all relevant security mechanisms of the groupware components used
* Setting up permissions and integration of permissions in the operating system permissions, authentication mechanisms
* Overview of the different message security solutions, eg. Encryption, Digital Signature, VPNs
* logging
* Backup and administration of configuration data
* data backup
* Incident handling and disaster recovery measures


The administration of the groupware components also requires knowledge of the configuration options of the server, client and database platforms used. It is indispensable that all administrators have a general knowledge base. Based on this, the individual focal points can be purposefully expanded and maintained.



