#M 3.82 Training for the secure use of telecommunication systems
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, IT Leader, HR Leader

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The correct and appropriate use of services and equipment in the vicinity of a telecommunications system requires user training. In addition, the users of the PBX system should be provided with all the necessary documents for operating the corresponding terminals, such as the operating instructions for the telephone. Lack of security in operation can result in confidentiality and integrity, but also in the fact that not all of the given options are known and the system is not used as planned. In this context, it is advantageous to also name contacts and responsible persons. In general, compliance with the guidelines and regulations governing the use of telecommunications systems should be noted.

In addition, it is important for all users of a (traditional) PBX system to know the meaning of the PBX's standard warning displays, icons and symbols. These include in particular:

* Attention tone for direct response,
* Barge-warning tone,
* Hands-free display,
* Display for activated direct response,
* Display for automatic callback and
* Display / overlay on a three-way conference.


The warning displays should give clear indications as soon as insecure features of the PBX are used. The use of certain, actually not released features (example: witness circuit) can lead to impairment of information security. Therefore, especially their warning indications and tones should be known. An important example is a warning signal in the event that a third-party intrusion is currently taking place on a telephone call currently being made.

Any conspicuous behavior of the PBX should be reported to the appropriate controller and, if possible, alternative communication channels should be used until cleared. In the event of tampering with the PBX, the IT Security Officer or the Data Protection Officer must be informed.

It is also important to point out the protection of the terminals with passwords or PINs in order to prevent unauthorized persons from accessing confidential information stored in the terminals. Many terminals already have factory-set default passwords that should be changed by the user at initial start-up.

Employees should be taught differently depending on user groups. Administrators should receive training with content other than the users. For all, the secure use of the trained content can be specifically supported. Amongst other things, intranet entries, informational events, hands-on phone calls for users, work instructions for security guards or checklists for administrators are suitable. Such tools should already be created at the time of training and should be specifically included.

In addition to traditional training courses, trainings using web-based interactive programs on the intranet are conceivable. Current developments can also be communicated through newsletters or newsletters and through regular events such as departmental meetings.



