#M 3.71 Training the administrators of virtual environments
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Virtual infrastructures represent an important infrastructure element in a data center. They offer significant savings potential compared to conventional server structures and are widely used in data centers. Therefore, it should be ensured that all persons entrusted with the administration of the virtualization components have sufficient knowledge of the products underlying the virtual infrastructure.

Virtualization servers have a high degree of complexity. In addition to virtual IT systems, they also contain a hypervisor and network components such as virtual switches and own services. Since misconfigurations on virtualization servers often have serious consequences for the virtual IT systems running on them, the demands on the administrators of the virtualization environment increase. Therefore, it is important that these administrators are adequately trained to avoid issues from their own efforts, to detect and resolve technical issues in a timely manner, and to make the most of the features and security features of virtualization tools. This enables them to master the functions of the respective virtualization product and to estimate the consequences of configuration changes.

The training should provide sufficient knowledge for the planning, construction and operation of the virtualization environment selected for deployment.

Even with a division of administrator roles (see M 2.446 Splitting the Administration Activities for Virtualization Servers), all administrators must master the basics of the selected virtualization technology, as the previously prevailing separation of specialist areas such as server, network and storage operations has been resolved st becomes.

Already when planning a virtualization environment, a sufficient budget for training measures should be taken into account. Time for training should also be scheduled in a timely manner to avoid staff resource shortages.

Virtualization training for IT systems should contain at least the following elements:

* Basics and concepts of the respective virtualization system
* Creation and implementation of internal guidelines and rules for data center operation
* Knowledge of the commands or the user interface of the respective components.
* Planning a virtualization environment for network sizing and protection, and sizing CPU, RAM, network, and storage network resources
* Prepare the operating system of the virtualization server
* Installation and configuration of the virtualization system
* Installation of the operating systems in the virtual IT system
* Network configuration of the virtual IT system
* business
* Monitoring, administration
* logging
* Backup and administration of configurations
* Backup of virtual machines
* automation processes
* Analysis and error handling


Care should be taken that the training contains sufficient practical components in addition to the theory.



