#M 3.30 Training on using Novell eDirectory client software
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, supervisors

For use on the intranet, the eDirectory directory service is installed on one or more servers as a rule. The users and user groups set up in eDirectory can then access the directory service via suitable eDirectory client software according to the rights granted to them in eDirectory.

Depending on the type of client software used, access to eDirectory is transparent to the user, so training on eDirectory-specific aspects of the software is not necessary for the user. However, if the client used requires an authentication of the user against the eDirectory, such as. the Novell Client for Windows, the user must be given at least the following content during a training course:

* Operation and application of the login mechanism used,
* Handling passwords as well
* Handling SSL authentication via user certificate or password.


If an LDAP client is used, which allows the user to navigate through the hierarchically arranged directory tree or to formulate their own search queries at the level of LDAP attributes, training of the user on the subject is additionally provided

* Information model of eDirectory and
* efficient formulation of search queries


required.

In addition to the general directory service clients (the Novell Client for Windows as well as libraries for Unix operating systems), there is also a class of other client applications for eDirectory that are specifically designed for user management in (even heterogeneous) IT landscapes serve: the Novell Account Management module. These applications are integrated in the logon process of the corresponding operating systems and thus also take over the authentication of users. In addition, the NDS Authentication Service (NDS) is available for a variety of platforms (Linux, FreeBSD, HP-UX, MVS, OS / 390, Solaris). NDS-AS requires the use of Netware (from Netware 5.0, SP 4A).

Authentication is an essential aspect in the secure operation of eDirectory. From the point of view of the directory service, it should be ensured that both the client authenticates to the system and the user to the client. If the authentication was successful, eDirectory offers automated access to all objects and services accessible to it (so-called background authentication). In this way, a single sign-on is realized.

Authentication comprises the following steps: The user enters his user name at the Novell Client, which is forwarded directly to the eDirectory. eDirectory searches the associated private key from its directory and encrypts it. This encryption involves the user password as well as a secret of the client. This encrypted private key is transmitted to the requesting client. The user is now asked for his password, which he tells the client. The client then decrypts the private key using this password and the client credential and keeps it in memory. Based on this private key and the certificate counterpart, the actual authentication with the eDirectory takes place according to a challenge / response procedure. If successful, the user is logged in and the user's private key is deleted from the client's memory.

Externally, the system thus appears like a password-based authentication scheme, and asymmetric cryptographic mechanisms are used internally.

The security of the data stored on eDirectory servers also depends to a large extent on the correct handling of the users with the security mechanisms. To be able to use them effectively, users of eDirectory client software should be trained accordingly.



## Examples 
* Operation and application of the login mechanism used,
* Handling passwords,
* Handling SSL authentication via user certificate or password,
* Information model of eDirectory,
* efficient formulation of search queries,
* Basic knowledge of the underlying operating systems and their security configuration as well as
* secure deletion of files (see, for example, also M 4.56 Safe Erase on Windows Operating Systems).




