#M 3.65 Introduction to VPN basic terms
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

A Virtual Private Network (VPN) provides a secure communication channel between IT systems, protected by access control and encryption. By selecting and incorporating suitable cryptographic methods, the integrity and confidentiality of the transmitted data can be protected. Likewise, with a suitable configuration, the communication partners can be authenticated securely, even if several networks or computers are connected to each other via leased lines or public networks.

A VPN can be set up via almost any media. VPNs can differ in the implementation, the functions and also the layer used in the ISO / OSI layer model. When planning a VPN, it should be decided how the VPN should be operated later and whether an external service provider should be commissioned with its setup or operation.



## Examples 
* Mobile workers: Mobile workers work at changing workplaces in different environments, potentially requiring remote access to data on the LAN within the institution. In addition to securing such connections, the safety of the terminal device and its environment of use must also be taken into account. Depending on the area of ??responsibility, it may be that the employees of any work place, eg. As a hotel or airport, want to dial into the internal network. In order to achieve an adequate safety situation comparable to a breakfast room, the recommendations in B 2.10 Mobile workstation must also be observed. The terminals of the employees are typically laptops or PDAs. Also for this the corresponding IT-Grundschutz modules must be applied, thus B 3.203 laptop, B 3.405 Smartphones, Tablets and PDAs, etc.
* Teleworkstation: When connecting a teleworkstation, a client system accesses the internal network of an institution from a fixed workstation outside the office environment. The communication between the teleworker and the LAN usually takes place via insecure, public networks. The IT systems of the teleworking center should be administered centrally. How the connection of the teleworkers can be secured is described in B 5.8 teleworking.
* Location networking: When networking sites, subnetworks are interconnected at different locations within an institution. In doing so, the trusted LANs under their own control are often connected via an insecure public transport network. In this scenario, especially the transport channel has to be protected. In addition, the sites' networks and client systems must be secured against attacks from the Internet using security gateways.
* Customer and Partner Connection: Frequently, customers or partners should be connected to the internal network of an institution. The following scenarios are typical: Certain internal information should be provided so that it can be accessed from a limited trusted network, ie. H. from the outside, can be retrieved. From the trusted network, d. H. from inside, external databases should be queried, eg. On internal systems software should be developed by external companies. Since the IT systems of the customers or the partner are not under the control of the institution, it must be ensured that only on the shared resources can be accessed. For example, all IT systems that customers or partners can access could operate on a separate network that is separated from the institution's LAN by a security gateway (see B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall)).
* Remote Maintenance: When performing remote maintenance activities, privileged administrator access to internal systems is required. The remote maintenance (maintenance, support and operation) of internal systems can be carried out by own or third-party employees. In both cases, there are high demands on the authentication of the remote user, the data flow control and the availability of the connection. If external employees are instructed to maintain the IT systems, the recommendations of module B 1.11 Outsourcing must be taken into account.




