#M 3.87 Introduction to Lotus Notes / Domino
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT security officer



## Examples 
* The importance of electronic communication and collaboration continues to increase. The integration into almost all business processes also increases the protection requirements of services implemented via Lotus Notes, such as. B.Email and intranet / extranet access. In total, this leads to an increasing protection requirement of the Lotus Notes / Domino platform.
* To date, there has been little consideration of potential threats to newer Internet services, such as Presence and Instant Messaging, and thus a lack of awareness of the associated IT risks.
* The architecture of the platform is changing: Based on a pure client-server architecture with Fat Client, the Lotus Notes / Domino platform is today a service-based platform. It contains differently configurable server components and services, a complex development environment and several clients, which can either be used for the entire functionality of the platform or selectively for defined services (such as B.POP3 and IMAP clients for e-mail). Mail).
* The greatly increased complexity of the software through its connection to established platforms of the manufacturer and standards (DB2 as DBMS, Eclipse, Websphere technology, W3C standards) considerably increases the number of potential weak points and makes the overview more difficult: architecture, interfaces and critical components are becoming harder to assess from a security point of view.
* The heterogeneity of the codebase (client-side Eclipse, server-side Websphere technology, Web 2.0 standards) due to the integration of new technology platforms requires a broader technological know-how in securing the Lotus Notes / Domino platform.
* The extensive integration capabilities of the Notes platform, especially the Alloy component for SAP integration, as well as the other possibilities of server and client-side integration can, with appropriate usage, protect the individual Lotus Notes / Domino components (eg . client when implementing a universal client strategy).




