#M 3.29 Training to administer Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The administration of an eDirectory directory service requires detailed knowledge of this product and its basic concepts. If this knowledge is not available, it can easily lead to misconfiguration, which can have significant safety implications. Training administrators in this field is therefore essential.

The following briefly summarizes which topics should be covered when training administrators.

The eDirectory directory service is hierarchically structured in a tree-like manner. The individual nodes of the directory tree consist of the container objects, which in turn can contain other objects, and the so-called leaf objects, which represent the end points (leaves) of the directory tree. Each object belongs to a unique object class. The object class defines the values ??or attributes or properties that can be assigned to an object of this object class. In addition, hierarchical relations are defined therein, ie. what potential father and child objects can be. There are already a number of predefined object classes by eDirectory. The definitions of the object classes are recorded in the so-called schema. If changes are made to the definition of individual object classes, eg. an extension of the associated attribute set, this is done via a change or extension of the schema. A schema change is to some extent the most sensitive operation ever that can be done on an eDirectory tree. This has effects on the entire tree, so that the previous concept of the tree must be re-thought. The administration of the eDirectory schema therefore requires a high level of expertise in the directory service and a very high level of security awareness.

Each individual object and each object class can be granted access rights to the individual attributes of the object. The explicit assignment takes place via the trustee relations, ie. Entry of Trustees in the Access Control List (ACL). The rights range from Supervisor, d. h. a full administration right, right through to browsing, which allows you to scroll through the appropriate directory tree section. The access rights to the objects are inherited by default in the tree hierarchy from top to bottom. However, it is possible to influence the inheritance process by introducing so-called Inherited Rights Filter (IRF). With these filters, automatic inheritance can be explicitly hidden. Furthermore, it is possible to define so-called security equivalents between individual objects or object classes X and Y. All trustees of object X automatically become trustees of object Y, ie. the object Y has at least the same access possibilities as object X.

After all, eDirectory access is then followed by the effective rights, which are the result of the above rights assignment and are calculated dynamically for each individual access.

On the intranet, users access the eDirectory via suitable client software. The access of the clients to the eDirectory takes place via a proprietary protocol, in which the private key of the logging user is encrypted by the eDirectory and sent to the client. In this encryption, the user password is involved. If the user now enters his password, the client can decrypt the private key, and a challenge / response procedure for authentication takes place between the client and the eDirectory server. With successful authentication, the user now has the access rights to the eDirectory defined for him.

Network applications and Internet users generally access the eDirectory directory service via the LDAP protocol. There are three different connection types by default: the anonymous bind, the proxy user anonymous bind and the NDS user bind. The default setting is that the anonymous login has the rights of the [public] object, which by default has the unrestricted browse right to the entire directory tree. The anonymous login does not require authentication. For password authentication, you can configure whether the password may be transferred in plain text or not. For a secure connection via LDAP, the SSL protocol is available, with either one- or two-sided authentication.

The eDirectory certificate server plays an important role in granting rights and thus in system security. Likewise, the authentications in the network and the structure of an encrypted channel (via SSL) depend on the certificate management. Careful administration of the eDirectory certificate server is therefore particularly important.

The eDirectory directory service allows partitioning of the directory database among multiple servers to improve scalability and performance. For the partitioning of a directory tree, a number of rules must be observed, see M 2.237 Partitioning and Replication Planning in Novell eDirectory.

Like its predecessor products, the eDirectory directory service supports replicas to increase fault tolerance and system throughput. There are several types of replicas, Master Replica, Read / Write Replica, Read Only Replica, Filtered Read / Write Replica, Filtered Read Only Replica, and Subordinate Reference Replica. For detailed information, see M .2.237 Partitioning and Replication Planning in Novell eDirectory.

eDirectory supports role-based administration and the delegation of administration tasks. According to the decisions made in the planning (see M 2.236 Planning the Use of Novell eDirectorys and M .2.238 Defining a Security Policy for Novell eDirectory), the different administrators must be trained for their respective tasks. This is especially true for the group of schema administrators who are able to change the entire database design of the directory tree (see above).

Also, the administration of the eDirectory client software and LDAP access requires detailed knowledge of the configuration options of the system. The underlying operating system also plays a role in the definition of a security environment, in particular file system security.

In addition, the administrators responsible for logging and monitoring must be thoroughly briefed on their activities.



## Examples 
* Overview   about the security mechanisms of eDirectory
* Security Management (ConsoleOne, iMonitor)
* Tree structure and name resolution
* Inheritance within the directory tree
* necessary physical protection of all eDirectory servers including replica




