#M 3.3 representation provisions
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, Head of Organization

Responsible for implementation: Supervisors

Representation regulations have the purpose of allowing predictable (vacation, business trip) and also unforeseeable cases (illness, accident, cancellation) of the personal loss to continue the performance of the task. Therefore, before such a case has occurred, it must be regulated who represents whom and in which matters and with which competences. This is particularly important in the field of information processing, as this usually requires specialist knowledge and a timely training of unknowing employees for the substitution case is not possible.

The following boundary conditions must be observed for the substitution regulations:

* For all essential business processes and tasks, viable representation regulations must be in place. These must be updated regularly.
* The assumption of tasks in the case of substitution presupposes that the procedural or project status has been sufficiently documented.
* The naming of a representative is usually not sufficient, it must be checked how the representative is to train, so that he can take over the tasks in content. If it turns out that there are people who can not be replaced at short notice because of their special knowledge, their failure means a serious threat to normal operation. Here it is particularly important to train a representative.
* It must be specified which scope of tasks should be performed by whom in the case of substitution.
* The representative may only obtain the necessary access and access authorizations in case of substitution.
* If, in exceptional cases, it is not possible to appoint or train a competent representative for persons, early consideration should be given as to which external forces can be used for the substitution case.




