#M 3.46 Contact for security questions
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

There should be contact points for security issues in each institution, both for seemingly simple and technical questions. These can be IT administrators, IT application managers or IT security officers (see also M 2.12 Support and advice for IT users and M 6.60 Definition of reporting procedures for security incidents).

Often the inhibition threshold to report specific safety incidents is high. However, if the IT Security Officer is already known to staff as the point of contact for general information security issues, this may alleviate the concerns of reporting specific security issues.

The institution should also credibly communicate to its employees that the reporting of security incidents does not adversely affect them and prompt them to report any suspicion of a security incident promptly and, if necessary, anonymously.

Since many security issues arise in the private use of IT systems, IT security officers should also pass on information for supposedly non-business purposes, such. B. The problem of computer viruses and Trojan horses in Internet use or for the protection of personal data in e-commerce. As a result, the employees are more open to security measures and the IT security officer is more accepted. In addition, many supposedly private problems can also occur in the office.

All employees should be familiar with the contact persons for safety issues as well as the reporting channels for security incidents. To this end, could. For example, a list of names, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of the respective contact person may be published in the internal telephone directory or on the intranet.



