#M 3.45 Planning information security training content
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, HR department, supervisors

An information security training program should provide staff with all the information and skills necessary to implement security policies and measures in place in the institution (see M 2.557 Designing an information security training program).

Having defined the objectives of the information security training for the institution and identifying relevant target groups and their specific training needs (see M 3.93 Awareness and training program targeting), concrete training modules and content must now be planned.

The following aspects should be considered:

* In which depth and with which methodology should which target group be trained?
* Which employees belong to which target group?
* Which resources are required for a target group, eg. Coaching capacity, premises, required IT infrastructure, organization etc.?
* Which specific work environments with their information security requirements and which associated measures must be taken into account, eg. B.Processes, procedures, tasks and roles including possible changes?


In the following, a structure and important contents of training modules are presented by way of example, which, according to the aspects presented, have to be processed according to roles and resources.

Initially, the modules differ only in topics. Each module can almost always be executed with varying depths of content, depending on which work environment or which section of an employee's career it is intended for.

The training content should be established on the basis of the analysis developed in measure M 2.557 Designing an information security training program, and should be periodically reviewed and adjusted to maximize the effectiveness of the training measures. In addition, all components of the IT-Grundschutz catalogs that are relevant for the respective information network should be checked to see whether the necessary measures were not only arranged but also trained.

Also exemplary here the training modules were assigned to the target groups. In this case, X indicates that the respective module is recommended for the corresponding role. An O indicates the optional training modules that should be decided on a case-by-case basis to determine whether the content is needed for the role in question.

training modules

Module 1: Information Security Basics

Module 2: Information Security at the Workplace

Module 3: Laws and Regulations

Module 4: Security concept of the organization

Module 5: Risk Management

Module 6: Information Security Management

Module 7: IT systems

Module 8: Operational area

Module 9: Technical realization of safety measures

Module 10: Emergency Preparedness / Emergency Planning

Module 11: New developments in the IT area

Module 12: Business Information Security Page

Module 13: Infrastructure Security

Table: Suggested training modules per function

In this example, the two modules 1 and 2 serve as basic training for all employees and are to be coordinated closely with awareness-raising measures (see M 2.198 Raising the awareness of information security staff). All other modules show which areas of specialization should also be taught depending on the subject.

Depending on the type of institution, it will be useful to define other target groups and the related training objectives (see M 3.93 Analysis of target groups for awareness-raising and training programs). It is important that also employees are not forgotten, which have nothing to do primarily with information technology, wiez. B.the security and cleaning service.

Module 1: Information Security Basics

Institutions are heavily dependent on a sufficiently available and protected against attack IT and infrastructure. Therefore, the most important task of awareness-raising and training is to teach employees the value of information security for the institution and related baseline information.

Among other things, this module should cover the following topics:

* Motivation Practical case studies for hazards and risks Effects of attacks, including social engineering
* Information as the values ??of an institution and its protection needs
* Term definitions: Information securityFlexibility, Integrity, AvailabilitySecurity, Safety, Data Protection and their demarcation to Information Security
* Information security in your own institutionApplications and objectives of the institutionSafety requirements and risks in the institutionInformation about the institution's information security strategy and conceptTasks and obligations of individual employees
* Essential safety rules for employee overview Internal security regulations Handling sensitive information (including passwords) Using e-mail and Internet protection against malicious programs and data securityUsing mobile devicesWorking in foreign or public environments


Module 2: Information Security at the Workplace

Employees can often help to avoid damage by following simple precautions. The module on the implementation of information security in the workplace should include the following topics:

* Sensitization of employees
* Motivation typical mistakes of users to avoid reckless handling of passwordsDisclaimer on encryption lacking protection of information lack of mistrustLaptop theft
* Prevent Social Engineering
* Organization and SecurityThe security requirements of the institution and their significance for everyday work Responsibilities and reporting channels in the institution (with personal presentation of the IT security officer)
* Access, access and access protection
* Importance of data backup and, if necessary, its implementation
* E-mail and Internet security
* Protection against malicious programs
* Safety aspects of relevant IT systems and applications
* Legal Aspects
* Behavior in the case of security incidentsRecognition of security preconditionsMessages and contact personsResponse rules in case of suspicion


The topics presented here are only a selection. An information security training module should always be adapted to the individual circumstances of the institution.

Module 3: Requirements, Laws and Regulations

This training module is intended to outline the legal requirements framework in which information security is to be considered within the institution for the employees.

Safety requirements, which may arise, include:

* Contracts (eg with customers, suppliers, outsourcing partners, lenders)
* regulatory requirements, relevant laws, regulations, information security standards and guidelines, etc.
* other requirements of the institution (eg conscious market differentiation, product strategy, security image)


It is important to not only commit employees to complying with relevant requirements, but also to make them aware of them, as well as to explain their background and implications.

Relevant requirements can vary greatly depending on the industry and country in which an institution operates. An important component is the standards and guidelines for information security and their concrete implementation in the institution, since experience shows that a number of the other requirements have already been processed.

Exemplary topics are:

* Data protection in the institutionRole and task of the data protection officer Data protection laws Organization dutiesUsing personal data by employees, eg. Related to log files
* Occupational Safety Role of the Occupational Safety Officer Regulations on VDU workplaces
* Legal or regulatory requirements related to information security, as far as they are relevant to the institution, such as: PCI DSS, Basel III, etc.
* Laws and standards for technical infrastructureFire protection, air conditioning, cabling, lightning protection, etc.
* Legal liability risks and IT useUse or offer TK or Internet servicesBuilding of the company to the outside (eg KonTraG, damage caused by malicious software) Liability for private use of IT componentsLegal framework for employee monitoring
* Other legal conditions Export regulations for IT products, eg. in the case of encryption, digital signatures and their legal statuslicense and copyright for software
* Dealing with attacks on internal IT-punishability in the area of ??hacking. Permissible defense measures. Tracking of hacker offenses


Module 4: Security concept of the institution

This training module deepens the topics covered in Module 2. In addition, it should enable the system and task managers to participate in the permanent adaptation of the security concept due to technical, organizational or legal changes.

The following contents belong to this topic:

* detailed knowledge of the requirements and risks that serve as the basis for the security concept
* Specific risks and security measures of the security concept in the areas of management, organization, infrastructure, IT operations and employees
* Adaptation of security measures to new technical, organizational and legal conditions
* Revision and maintenance of the security concept




## Examples 
* Definitions and examples of terms: vulnerability, threat, vulnerability, risk, security objective
* Typical dangers and threats: Force majeure: fire, water, explosion, storm, earthquake, lightning strike, strike, demonstration, etc. Organizational drawbacks: missing or inadequate regulations, inappropriate assignment of rights, uncontrolled use of IT systems, Handling of sensitive information / data media.Human mistakes: error, negligence, curiosity, ignorance, etc.Technical failure: power failure, failure of the air conditioner, overvoltage, failure of switching elements or circuits, faults in the mechanics or electronics , etc.Accidental acts: malicious programs, theft, sabotage, espionage, manipulation, vandalism, hacking and cracking, including countering attacker types and motivations; For example, inside or in the case of attackers from outside
* Risk managementFacilities for risk management: Risk analysis, assessment, treatment, acceptance, residual riskDesign of a hazard overviewDetermination of additional dangersDifference assessmentDiagnosis and assessment of risksRisk treatment (reduction, avoidance, acquisition, transfer) Dealing with residual risks




