#M 3.96 Support of awareness and training management
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

In order to successfully establish information security in an institution, sensitized and trained employees are indispensable. An awareness-raising and training program that is tailored to the needs of the institution and therefore adequately equipped is therefore a key success factor in establishing the guidelines and measures on information security sustainably in the institution and ensuring their effectiveness. In order to implement it, the management itself needs to be sensitized (see M 3.44 Information Security Management) and actively support the program through appropriate measures throughout its lifecycle:

initiation

Before an awareness-raising and training program on information security is developed, an explicit management mandate is useful. This is to communicate within the institution. As a result, those responsible are legitimized and visibly supported for their task. In addition, the employees perceive the topic and its meaning.

planning

The result of planning an information security awareness and training program should be presented to and endorsed by management. Through a specific mission to implement the program, management can signal its continued support and provide the necessary resources.

Implementation and establishment

While the designed programs are introduced and established in the institution, the management has to be visibly involved, as this strongly influences the desired positive reception by the employees. Executives should actively engage in awareness-raising and training activities on information security, such as: B.durch

* own contributions to media of the institution,
* Moderation of special events,
* exemplary behaviors,
* Provide sufficient resources for their employees.


They underline the importance of the measures for their own area. In addition, the topic becomes comprehensible and credible for the employees. They recognize and accept that adequate information security is becoming more and more a necessary and self-evident part of their daily work.

Success control and updating

It should be regularly checked if the established awareness-raising and training measures are still effective. Depending on the result, the measures should be adjusted accordingly. This must also be done when the framework conditions in the institution have changed (see also M 3.83 Analysis of safety-related personal factors, M 3.94 Measurement and evaluation of learning success and M 3.95 Securing learning material).

For this, the management can make valuable contributions, eg. B .:

* It can moderate the often difficult voting process of a method for measuring and evaluating the learning success between different interest groups.
* It can ensure that information security is communicated in an open and trusting manner. Employees accept this more and are more willing to fix existing vulnerabilities.
* If awareness-raising or training measures need to be adjusted or realigned, management should respond promptly and, for example, approve the necessary resources.




