#M 3.63 Training of users for authentication by means of directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT, supervisors

Authentication is an essential aspect in the secure operation of directory services. Both the client should authenticate to the directory service system and the user should authenticate to the client. In some directory service usage scenarios, the client should also authenticate to the user and the server to the client to provide a mutual trust. If the authentication was successful, the user receives automated access to all objects and services accessible to him (so-called background authentication). In this way, for example, a single sign-on is realized.

Since Single-Sign-On (SSO) based on a directory service is mainly used in conjunction with tokens, smart cards, magnetic stripe cards or systems for fingerprint, iris or face recognition, the following keywords provide an overview of the necessary training content.

Subsequent bullet points summarize necessary training content for users that should be addressed for secure authentication using directory services:

* Introduction to security Topics Identification and authentication, explanations of definitions such as knowledge, possession and property
* Sensitization of users to deal with authentication characteristics, eg. Password gates and PINs
* Correct use of any other existing authentication options such as tokens, smart cards, magnetic stripe cards or biometric authentication methods such as fingerprint recognition, iris recognition, face recognition, etc.
* Handling the reading or recognition devices, eg. B. Detection of safety-related changes to a smart card reader
* General aspects and information about authorization management
*  View possible end user privileges
* General data protection aspects in the use of directory services (eg problem presentation of data protection, publication of plain names, legal classification of directory services, employment data in directory services)
* Requirements for the environment of use of the directory service product used, such as the user workstations
*   Overview of the security function Itten of the directory service product used
* Overview of user responsibilities required for the secure operation of a directory service product
*   Overview of possible error messages that are of importance to the end user


At the same time, the contact persons for questions about directory services in the institution should also be presented. Users should also be informed about the ability to view and correct a directory service entry.



