#M 3.6 Regulated procedure when leaving employees
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, Supervisor, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources, Supervisors

If an employee leaves the institution or changes function, please note:

* Before the departure is a timely briefing of the successor to perform. However, it is desirable that the working hours at least briefly overlap.
* All documents (as well as borrowed institution books), issued keys, borrowed equipment (eg portable computers, storage media, documentation) must be returned to the departing party. In particular, the identity cards or company IDs as well as other cards for access authorization are to be collected. Furthermore, in biometric procedures (eg iris scanners, fingerprints and handset recognition), corresponding access authorizations have to be deleted or adapted to the established representative regulation.
* All access authorizations and access rights set up for the departing party must be withdrawn or deleted. This also applies to external access authorizations via data transmission facilities. If, in exceptional cases, an access authorization to an IT system was shared between several persons (eg by means of a common password), then after leaving one of the persons the access authorization has to be changed.
* Before adoption, it should again be explicitly stated that all confidentiality statements remain in force and that no information received during the work may be disclosed.
* If the departing person is a functional agent in an emergency plan, the emergency plan must be updated.
* All persons entrusted with security tasks, in particular the Pf rtnerdienst, are to be informed about the departure and functional changes of employees.
* Outsourced employees should be prevented from uncontrolled access to public or business premises, in particular rooms with IT systems. Even in the case of functional changes, the access authorization to certain premises, such as server rooms, may have to be withdrawn.
* Optionally, even for the period between the pronouncement of a cancellation and the departure of the withdrawal of all access and access rights to IT systems, as well as the prohibition to enter worthy rooms, can be pronounced ,


All necessary activities when an employee leaves the institution or changes function must be clearly regulated. As a practical tool so-called run-way have proven on which the individual activities of the excretory are predetermined, which he has to do before leaving the authorities or the company.



