#M 3.55 confidentiality agreements
Responsible for initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Security Officer, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: Human Resources, Supervisors

External staff are often given access to confidential information for the performance of their duties or receive results that must be treated confidentially. In these cases, they must be obliged to treat them accordingly. This should be preceded by non-disclosure agreements signed by external staff.

A confidentiality agreement should describe

* which information must be kept confidential,
* for which period this confidentiality agreement applies,
* what actions must be taken upon termination of this agreement, eg. B. destruction or return of data carriers,
* how the ownership of information is regulated
* what rules apply to the use and disclosure of confidential information to other partners, if necessary,
* the consequences of breach of the agreement.


The confidentiality agreement may also refer to the relevant security policies and other policies of the organization. In case external employees have access to the organization's IT infrastructure, they should also sign the security guidelines for the use of the respective IT systems in addition to the confidentiality agreement.

A confidentiality agreement provides the legal basis for obliging external employees to keep information confidential. For this reason, it must take into account all relevant laws and regulations for the organization in the specific field of application, be clearly worded and kept up to date.

It may be useful to use different confidentiality agreements depending on the purpose. In this case, it must be clearly defined which agreement is necessary for which cases.



