#M 3.5 Training on safety measures
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, Supervisor

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, supervisor

As can be demonstrated by many concrete examples, such as the damage statistics of electronics insurers, damages often result simply from the ignorance of elementary security measures. In order to prevent this, every single employee must be trained and motivated to handle business-relevant information and IT with care. Only by providing the necessary knowledge can an understanding of the necessary information security measures be aroused.

The following presents the key issues that should be taught during safety training. A detailed and target group-oriented description of training content can be found in M 3.45 Planning information security training content.

* Information security awareness Each employee should be aware of the importance of security issues. A suitable way of raising awareness, for example, is to show the dependence of the agency or the company and thus the workplaces on the smooth functioning of the business processes. In addition, the value of information must be worked out under the criteria of confidentiality, integrity and availability. These sensitization measures must be repeated at regular intervals.
* Employee-related information security measuresThis topic is intended to convey the security measures that were developed in an information security concept and are to be implemented by the individual employees. Depending on the business process or task, there may be other values ??that need to be protected or have a different need for protection. Employees should be taught what meaning information or other objects have for the institution and what they should consider when dealing with them. This part of the training is very important as many safety measures can only be implemented effectively after appropriate training and motivation.
* Product-related security measuresThis topic is intended to convey the security measures that are inherently linked to a product, such as an IT system, and that are often included in the scope of delivery. In addition to passwords for logging in, this can also be used to encrypt documents or data fields. For example, hints and recommendations about the structuring and organization of files can significantly reduce the cost of data backup.
* Behavior in the event of malicious softwareHere should be taught employees how to deal with computer viruses or other malware. Possible contents of this training are (see M 6.23 Behavioral rules on the occurrence of malware): Detection of a malware infectionDevelopment and types of malwareSimultaneous measures in case of suspicionTo prevent malware removalPreventive measures
* Authenticationemployees should be able to handle the existing authentication mechanisms and the authentication means (eg passwords or tokens) used for this correctly. For example, the importance of passwords for information security as well as the boundary conditions are to be explained, which make effective use of a password possible (see also M 2.11 Control of password usage).
* Significance of data backup and its execution Regular data backup is one of the most important security measures in every information network. The data backup concept (see module B 1.4 Data backup concept) of the agency or the company and the data backup tasks to be performed by each individual user are to be communicated. This is particularly important for areas where users themselves must perform the backups.
* Handling of personal dataThe handling of personal data requires special requirements. Employees who work with personal data must be trained for the legally required security measures. This concerns, for example, the handling of requests for information, changes and improvements of the data subjects, legally prescribed periods for data deletion, protection of confidentiality and the transmission of data.
* Instruction in Emergency ProceduresAll employees must be instructed in existing emergency procedures. This includes the explanation of the escape routes, the behavior in case of fire or other emergency situations, the handling of fire extinguishers and the emergency reporting system (who should be notified first as well).
* Social engineering prevention Employees should be made aware of the dangers of social engineering. The typical patterns of such attempts to obtain confidential information through targeted listening, as well as the methods of protecting against it, should be explicated. Since social engineering is often associated with the illusion of a false identity, employees should be regularly advised to verify the identity of their peers and, in particular, not to disclose sensitive information over the phone.


When carrying out training, it should always be borne in mind that it is not enough to train an employee once throughout his or her job. For almost all forms of training - especially front-desk training - there is a great deal of new information coming in to the participants. These reach only a small part in the long-term memory, 80% of the imparted knowledge are usually already forgotten at the end of the training.

Therefore, employees should be trained and sensitized again and again on topics related to information security. This can for example

* in shorter events on current security issues,
* as part of regular events such as departmental meetings, or
* through interactive training programs available to all employees.




