#M 3.58 Introduction to basic WLAN concepts
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

WLANs can be operated in two different architectures. In ad hoc mode, two or more mobile terminals equipped with a WLAN card (clients) communicate directly with each other.

In most cases, a WLAN is operated in infrastructure mode, ie. Client communication takes place via a central radio bridge, the so-called access point. The access point is also used to connect to wired LAN segments.

The infrastructure mode allows several deployment variants:

* By means of several access points, overlapping radio cells can be installed, so that the radio connection can be maintained when a client transfers to the next radio cell (roaming). In this way, large areas can be supplied across the board. The range of a radio cell is extremely dependent on the ambient conditions and is in the range of about 10 to 150 meters.
* Two access points can also be used as bridges between two wired LANs. Similarly, the use of an access point as a repeater (repeater) to increase the range possible.
* When using appropriate components (directional antennas) at the access points, a WLAN can also be used to network real estate. According to the manufacturer, ranges in the kilometer range can be achieved here. The access points can be operated as a relay station or bridge.


The standard IEEE 802.11 uses the terms Independent Basic Service Set (IBSS) for radio networks in ad-hoc mode and Basic Service Set (BSS) for constellations in infrastructure mode with an access point. Several coupled BSS are referred to as Extended Service Set (ESS), the coupling network is called Distribution System (DS).

The IEEE 802.11, 802.11b and 802.11g WLAN systems approved in Germany and almost all European countries use the ISM (Industrial-Scientific-Medical) frequency band between 2.4 and 2.48  GHz, free of charge and can be used without additional permission. The transmission power is limited to a maximum of 100 mWEIRP (Effective Isotropic Radiated Power).

Systems of the IEEE 802.11 standard transmit the data at a rate of 1 or 2 Mbit / s using spread spectrum techniques, either by means of Frequency Hopping (FHSS) or Direct Sequence (DSSS) techniques. For the sake of completeness, it should be mentioned that 802.11 also defines an infrared transmission, which has so far remained meaningless in practice.

The systems according to IEEE 802.11b use only the DSSS method. The transmitted data is spread with a fixed code to make the transmission less susceptible to interference. Access to the radio channel, as with all systems of the 802.11 standards, is done by a randomized method called Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance (CSMA / CA). The gross data transfer rate for IEEE 802.11b is a maximum of 11 Mbit / s. The transmission rates can not be guaranteed as with all systems of the 802.11 standards, they depend on the number of clients and the quality of the radio transmission link.

Systems of the IEEE 802.11g standard use Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) transmission technology according to IEEE 802.11a and therefore also allow data rates of up to 54 Mbit / s.

In the 2.4 GHz frequency range, 13 frequency channels are available in Germany with a frequency range of 5 MHz for 802.11b radio transmission. With a channel bandwidth of approx. 22 MHz, however, only a maximum of 3  channels can be used simultaneously without overlapping, for example channels 2, 7 and 12.

Systems of the IEEE 802.11a and 802.11h standards use the 5 GHz range. In the frequency range from 5.15 to 5.35 GHz and at 5.47 to 5.725 GHz, a total of 19 cans have been released in Germany at a distance of 20 MHz under conditions. With a channel bandwidth of 20 MHz, directly adjacent channels will not be disturbed here. In the 5 GHz frequency range, military and civilian radar and navigation applications are also working, and only systems that support dynamic frequency selection and transmission power adjustment should be used.



## Examples 
* The standard offers the possibility of assigning a network name (ESSID or SSID: (Extended) Service Set Identity). There are two operating modes. If the user specifies the identifier Any, the WLAN component accepts any SSIDs. In the other case, the registered name is checked and only subscribers with the same SSID can participate in the network. When passing between two adjacent radio cells, the SSID is used to find the next access point. Because the SSID is sent in plain text across the network, an attacker can easily discover it. Some access points offer the possibility to prevent broadcasting of the SSID in the broadcast. However, suppressing the SSID in this way is not standard compliant.




