#M 3.48 Selection of coaches or external training providers
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer, Head of Human Resources

Responsible for implementation: IT Security Officer, Human Resources

The people responsible for awareness-raising and training programs must decide whether and to what extent they want to use their own employees or external providers as trainers. In addition, the form of training must be determined.

If one's own employees are to be used as trainers, they must have the necessary specialist knowledge and be able to convey this knowledge in a target group-oriented manner. In addition to the required information security skills, the coaches must have well-developed didactic and communicative abilities. In addition, sensitization measures require a sufficient knowledge of the institution, its safety culture and the business processes of the target environment. It is also important that coaches master the language of their respective target audience, ie be able to put the information security aspects to be trained in the respective work and project contexts. Internal trainers must be given the time needed not only to carry out awareness-raising and training activities, but also to be able to prepare and evaluate them.

For cost or skill reasons, it may be more advantageous, at least initially, to have the training carried out by external specialists. Then you have to decide what financial resources are available. The external trainers should be carefully selected on the basis of the above criteria and prepared for their task. In particular, they need to be provided with the required internal institutional background.

External resources for awareness-raising or training also require internal resources. It must be named a responsible training coordinator, who

* selects qualified training providers,
* Provides learning content and methods, as well as providing the trainers with the information they need
* coordinates internal training planning, preparation and execution,
* forms the communication interface between trainers and own employees,
* analyze the participant evaluations and determine suitable improvement measures, if necessary together with the trainers.


The training coordination can be carried out by the IT security officer or even an employee from the human resources department. In any case, the IT Security Officer and Human Resources Department must work closely together.

Experience has shown that there are a number of external providers who offer appropriate awareness-raising or training measures in a form that meets the needs of the institution or that can be adapted with reasonable effort.

In awareness-raising or training activities, which should reach a larger number of employees in several cycles, it may be worthwhile thinking about a Train the Trainer concept. In this case, the initial measures are either carried out by suitable internal staff or external trainers with the aim that the participants of these measures later take on a coaching role themselves. This can have a very positive effect on their own awareness and motivation for information security for these employees. In addition, they can contribute their own experiences to the training measures. Especially with training topics that include aspects of culture and certain behaviors within the institution, an internal trainer can increase the acceptance and learning of the training because of his deeper knowledge of internal processes and awareness of the participants. If the train-the-trainer concept is to be used, the initial measures must include, in addition to the intended subject matter, instructions on the methodological-didactic imparting of learning materials.



