#M 3.91 Training administrators of cloud infrastructures
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

Cloud administrators must be trained for their tasks. This must be done before they start working, and they should be repeated regularly because of the short innovation and update cycles in cloud computing.

The training must teach you how the cloud administrators can perform their tasks. Here a possible specialization is to be taken into consideration, if the administration is distributed to different roles and the administrator is only responsible for parts of the cloud.

The key task of cloud administrators is to use the cloud management solution to manage the different components of the cloud infrastructure. That is, a productive cloud administrator can set up, monitor, and, if necessary, add additional physical resources to the cloud in order to automate virtual resource allocation. Training must therefore teach how to manage the cloud infrastructure effectively and efficiently. This can best be achieved with manufacturer-specific training. In addition to the pure knowledge of the cloud management solutions used, the cloud administrators must also be trained in the processes and processes of the cloud service provider.

The training courses must cover the following key aspects of cloud administration:

* Knowledge of the relevant techniques, components and functions used.
* The different technical levels (applications, IT systems, networks and storage systems) of the cloud infrastructure.
* Dealing with different cloud tenants - common configuration settings on the one hand and required separation on the other.
* Provisioning and deprovisioning of cloud resources.


The training should cover more aspects of cloud administration:

* Automation of operations or processes, especially provisioning and de-provisioning.
* Creation, administration and replication of cloud service profiles.
* Interfaces to virtualization, network management and storage systems.
* Detecting the effects of configuration changes, preventing errors.
* Troubleshooting the cloud infrastructure.
* Optimal use of security features and technical features.




