#M 3.44 Raising awareness of information security management
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Sustained and active support from the authorities or management is essential to ensure that safety campaigns can be successful for employees. It is therefore imperative that awareness-raising management be made aware of safety issues prior to the start of information security awareness campaigns.

The most important information that must be delivered to the management is:

* Presentation of security risks and associated costsThe attention of the decision-makers can be This can be achieved, for example, by reports of security incidents that could affect your own institution as well (from institutions in the same industry or similar IT). Examples of concrete security incidents from the neighborhood or from comparable institutions can facilitate the backing of the management. Such examples can now be found not only in specialist journals, but also in daily newspapers (eg after hacker attacks or virus incidents) and, of course, in large numbers on the Internet. Actual cases of damage from the past from one's own institution can also be used for this purpose. Experience has shown that it is difficult to present financial losses in concrete numbers. Statistics and evaluations, such as those issued by the police (BKA, FBI) ??or safety journals from time to time, may provide appropriate information in some cases.
* Effects on Business Processes Furthermore, it is important to describe the effects of information security incidents on the business critical processes. Possible dependencies of applications and IT systems are not always known to the management. However, a list of possible security risks is usually not sufficient to gain the support of the management. Balanced reasoning should also include the following points.
* Legal security requirements Legislation and other legal requirements may also impose information security requirements in an institution, including, but not limited to, privacy laws, the Social Security Code, the Commercial Code, the Civil Code, the Criminal Code, etc. Many statutory wording on information security requirements is general In certain circumstances, however, this can be used to derive concrete obligations for the guarantee of an adequate level of safety. An institution must investigate which regulations and laws can be effective in individual cases.
* Benefits of CertificationA certification of information security processes officially confirms the high value proposition of information security in an institution. The confidence of the business partners and the public in the IT of the institution is thereby strengthened. A certification can also bring competitive advantages in tenders.
* Standard Information Security Practices for the IndustryAn additional motivation for using information security standards is the behavior of other similar organizations. Information about industry standards can be obtained from industry journals, from events or through contacts with chambers and associations.


A brief introduction to raising management awareness is a brief report, followed by a presentation that uses current examples (external and internal) to highlight the topic of information security. For example, it should be pointed out that technical measures are pointless without simultaneous human and organizational measures. In order to get the support of the management, it is helpful to show the benefits of such measures.

By presenting security risks and alternative solutions, management can be persuaded of the need to implement security measures.

Experience has shown that information security is only successfully implemented in an institution if all superiors set a good example here. It makes sense, therefore, to explicitly oblige all executives to inform and sensitize their employees to compliance with the security requirements.



