#M 3.89 Training for the administration of the logging
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, Supervisor

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, supervisor

In order to get the most out of logging features and security features, it is important to train administrators accordingly. Training should provide information about how to set up and operate the components of a logging server, as well as about administration. This also includes manufacturer-specific aspects of individual products that are used in the company for logging.

In addition to the aspects of general operating system security, as described in B 3.102 Server under Unix or B 3.108 Windows Server 2003, the following points are important:

* Configuration and installation of the logging server
* Basics and concepts of administration
* Knowledge of the commands for setup, operation, maintenance and troubleshooting
* Data protection aspects (see M 2.110 Data protection aspects during logging).


Knowledge about possible attack scenarios can also be imparted to allow a careful analysis of the log files. In addition, it is useful to convey the basics of Intrusion Detection / Intrusion Prevention Systems (IDS / IPS). In addition, topics such as a central logging server and data protection aspects should be addressed in this training (see also M 2.110 Data protection aspects during logging). For training measures, a budget should already be provided for the procurement of IT components and a training concept should be prepared for administrators.



