#M 4.4 Proper handling of drives for removable media and external data storage
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Commercially available PCs today are usually equipped with a CD / DVD-ROM drive or CD / DVD burner. In addition, it is possible to connect external storage media via interfaces that are automatically recognized and integrated by many operating systems. Examples are USB memory attached to the USB port and Firewire hard drives. In addition, manyIT systems incorporate card readers for memory cards. Such drives for removable media and external data storage pose the following potential security issues:

* The IT system could be booted uncontrollably from such drives.
* It could be uncontrolled software from such drives are recorded.
* Data could be copied unauthorized to removable media.


When booting removable media or installing third-party software, not only can security settings be overridden, but the IT system can become infected with computer viruses and other malware.

These dangers must be counteracted by appropriate organizational or technical safety measures. For this purpose, various approaches are available whose specific advantages and disadvantages are briefly described below:

* DisassemblingDrives Removing removable media drives (or eliminating them from procurement) provides the safest protection against the above-mentioned threats, but usually involves significant overhead. Often an expansion is not possible at all, z. B. for memory card readers in notebooks. It should also be taken into consideration that the expansion may obstruct the administration and maintenance of the IT system. This solution should be considered if special safety requirements exist.
* Locking drives For some types of drives, there are lockable slide-in devices that can help prevent uncontrolled use. Procurement should ensure that the drive locks are suitable for the existing drives and can not damage them. It should be noted that locks are not offered for all types of drives, such as built-in memory card readers. In addition, care should be taken that the locks are offered by the manufacturer with a sufficient number of different keys. The disadvantage is the procurement costs for the drive locks and the effort for the required key management. Therefore, this solution only makes sense for higher protection requirements or special safety requirements.
* Deactivation inBIOSbzw. Operating System In the BIOS, most PCs offer setting options for which drives can be booted. In conjunction with a password protection of the BIOS settings (see also M 4.84 Use of the BIOS security mechanisms) this can prevent the uncontrolled booting of removable media and mobile data carriers. Furthermore, the existing drives and interfaces can be disabled individually in modern operating systems. This complicates the unauthorized use, z. B. the installation of third-party software or copying to removable media. The deactivation of the drives in the BIOS or operating system has the advantage that no hardware changes are required. The corresponding settings in the operating system can possibly even be made centrally. For this to work, make sure that users do not have the privileges in the operating system to reverse the disabling of the drives.
* Control of Interface Usage The operation of external storage media such as USB storage media is very difficult to prevent if the interface used is also used for other (permitted) add-on devices. For example, notebooks are delivered that only provide the USB interface for connecting a mouse. Thus, it usually does not make sense to use a USB lock or disable the interface by other mechanical measures. The use of interfaces should therefore be regulated by appropriate rights at the level of the operating system or with the help of additional programs. For some additional programs to protect the USB or Firewire interfaces, you can also specify whether external data carriers can only be read. Alternatively, the addition of devices can be monitored. When connecting data carriers to external interfaces, the operating system often loads drivers or kernel modules or creates entries in configuration files (such as the Windows Registry) that are detected can. Details are product- and operating system-specific and are described in a separate measure (see also M 4.200 Handling USB storage media).
* EncryptionThere are products that make it possible to access only the authorized mobile devices. One solution, for example, is that only mobile data carriers encrypted with certain cryptographic keys can be read and written. This not only protects against unauthorized access via manipulated mobile data carriers, but also protects the data on the mobile data carriers in the event of loss or theft.
* Usage Guidelines In many cases, users may want to use the built-in drives for removable media or storage media on external interfaces, but use is governed by policies. On a technical level, only booting removable media should be disabled in the BIOS. Removing, locking or disabling the drives in the operating system is out of the question. In this case, the guidelines for using the drives and storage media should be defined as explicitly as possible. For example, a general ban can be pronounced, only the copying of public text documents is allowed. The guidelines must be made known to all users and compliance monitored. The installation and launching of programs that were recorded by removable media should be prohibited and as far as possible technically prevented (see also M 2.9 prohibition of use of unauthorized hardware and software). This purely organizational solution should only then be selected when users need to access the drives occasionally or regularly. Otherwise access should be prevented by technical measures as described above.


When selecting a suitable procedure, all drives for removable media must always be taken into account, as well as all options for exchanging data via networking, in particular e-mail and Internet connections. If the IT system has a connection to the Internet, it is not sufficient to deactivate or expand all drives for removable media. Special attention is paid to the protection against malicious programs, eg. Computer viruses or Trojan horses (see also M 4.3 Use of virus protection programs).

Regardless of how you choose to do this, you should prevent content from removable drives from being automatically executed when the media is attached. To do this, deactivate the corresponding autorun and autoplay functions of the operating system. For more information, see M 4.57 Disabling automatic CD-ROM detection.

In order for the security measures to be accepted and respected, users must be informed and sensitized about the dangers of removable media drives.



