#M 4.415 Secure operation of biometric authentication under Windows
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

As of Windows Server 2008 R2 and Windows 7, Windows supports biometric fingerprint authentication by default. For this, the Windows Biometric Framework (WBF) was developed and integrated into the operating system. With the WBF, manufacturers of biometric solutions can integrate their sensors and algorithms into the operating system and store biometrically recorded data securely. The WBF adds a Biometric Device element to the Control Panel, as long as Windows detects a fingerprint reader on the system.

First of all, Windows supports the use of fingerprint readers for the following purposes:

* Biometric authentication for access to the operating system or domain (Windows logon)
* Biometric authentication for increasing the rights for the user account control (see M 4.340 Using the Windows User Account Control UAC as of Windows Vista)
* Access biometric features from within applications by providing a unified interface


Whether the domain login with biometric authentication is allowed can be specified via a group policy object. If possible, this should be used to enforce a consistent, secure configuration for all devices in the domain. The use of biometric authentication for guest accounts or the predefined account administrator is not possible.

The motivation for the use of fingerprint readers is often primarily the easier authentication for the users. The fingerprint readers commonly used in laptops have repeatedly proven themselves to be only limitedly reliable in tests. Depending on the model, a copying of foreign fingerprints with more or less technical effort is feasible. For systems with increased protection requirements, therefore, it must be carefully checked whether the security level of the devices actually used is sufficient if the authentication is to be performed exclusively via fingerprint recognition. When using other biometric methods, the reliability of the detection should be assessed in advance and compared with the protection requirements of the systems and applications concerned. For systems with high and very high protection requirements, an authentication based on chip cards or tokens is usually superior to the available biometric methods.

It is also important to plan access to the system if the biometric fingerprint is not available, for example due to an injury to the finger. Windows allows the capture of multiple fingers, which can be used alternatively. In addition, access should be set up with a secure centrally stored password as a fallback solution.



