#M 4.134 Choice of suitable data formats
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: user, IT manager

There are a variety of different data formats that are supported by the various IT applications. However, these are generally not compatible, so interchangeable. Unfortunately, not even IT applications with the same task field (eg text processing systems) can handle the data formats of similar products. This problem is further increased by the fact that often application programs can no longer process the data formats of their predecessors after a version change.

Therefore, when acquiring new application programs, it must be examined which data formats are supported and how widespread the supported data formats are. Since many important processes are to be permanently stored electronically, it is just as important to question which lifespan is expected from a data format. In general, every time the system is changed it should be checked whether all stored data can still be processed with the new IT systems or applications.

Likewise, every time an application program is used, it must be considered in which format the processed data should be saved. At the same time, it should always be taken into account who and at what time should be able to read this data.

When choosing data formats for the file exchange, it should also be questioned whether these security risks can entail. For example, certain data formats may contain unwanted additional information in the files (see also M 4.64 Verifying the data to be transferred before transferring / removing residual information). Files created in certain data formats can also cause other security-related problems, such as macros, and thus the risk of macro viruses (see M 4.3 Using virus protection programs).

The consideration of which file formats are suitable for which purposes and which should be supported in the institution should be suitably documented and communicated.



