#M 4.430 Analysis of log data
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

An information network typically generates a large amount of log files.

Before the logging entries can be evaluated, a normalization of the data must be carried out. Through normalization, the different data formats of the protocol-generating systems are converted into a uniform format. Before the evaluation, it is also important that the relevant data be limited in order to reduce the mass of the protocol data. This is achieved by filtering, aggregating and correlating the data (see M 4.431 Selection and processing of relevant information for logging). These measures are particularly important when logging at a central location.

Another important point in analyzing the log data is time synchronization. To detect attacks or malfunctions across multiple IT systems and applications, an identical time should be set on each system. So that all systems are time-synchronized even in a large information network, central time servers can be used (see also M 5.172 Secure time synchronization for central logging). These provide the system time, for example, via the Network Time Protocol (NTP) (see M 4.227 Using a Local NTP Server for Time Synchronization). All other systems in the information network can be synchronized with it.

For an alarm function, the logged information must be evaluated promptly. During the evaluation, safety-critical events without time delay are considered. In addition, relevant data is extracted from existing log files and used for analysis. Deviations from normal behavior, configuration errors and error messages must be taken into account in the analysis in order to obtain an overview of all relevant events within an information network.

In order to be able to promptly identify a relevant log entry, it is possible to use suitable algorithms and analysis techniques such as signature recognition and threshold value analysis. These techniques are often used by IT early warning systems. Once an attack is detected, an alert should be triggered to allow immediate action against the threat.



In order to be able to understand the events and the logging entries for a possible preservation of evidence, a report should be prepared after the evaluation. Many logging applications provide a web interface to graphically display the result of the analysis. This allows better recognition of possible trends. The web interface can also be used to define arbitrary evaluation views and filters.

If the log data is analyzed centrally, it is possible to detect complex relationships in the information network and to search for operational or security preconditions within an information network. Therefore, the log data should be archived for future evaluations. In addition to your own requirements for the retention period, you must also check in advance which statutory or contractual retention periods apply to log files. In order to ensure the traceability of actions, a minimum storage period may be prescribed, for data protection reasons there may also be a duty to delete (see also M 2.110 Data protection aspects during logging).



