#M 4.64 Verify the data to be transmitted before passing on / removing residual information
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Before sending a file via e-mail or disk exchange or before publishing a file to a web server, it should be checked to see if it contains any residual information that is not intended for publication. Such residual information can be of different origin and, accordingly, the actions to be taken against it can be different. The most common causes of such residual information are described below.

Generally, standard software should be like. For example, word processing or spreadsheets can be used to check which additional information is stored in files created with it. Some of this information is saved with, others without the knowledge of the user.

Before passing on files, they should at least be randomly checked for unwanted additional information. This should be done using a different editor than the one used to create the file.

Care must be taken to ensure that not all remaining information can be deleted without destroying the file format. If z. B. If some bytes are deleted from a word processing file, the word processor may not recognize the file format. To eliminate residual information,

* the file can be saved in another file format, eg. as plain text or as HTML,
* The user data can be copied to a second instance of the same standard software, whereby no other application should run on the IT system. This is especially recommended for files with a larger change history.


In order to prevent the disclosure of information that was originally brought in with the knowledge of the creators, such as. as hidden formatted text, whose presence was then forgotten, it may be useful to print the file. In doing so, all options should be activated which also include information hidden during printing.



## Examples 
* when editing a document is complete,
* before running another application that takes up a lot of space,
* before the document text is transferred to another application,
* before the document is converted to another file format and
* before the document is sent by e-mail or disk exchange.




