#M 4.29 Use of an encryption product for portable IT systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

In order to avoid the need to retrieve sensitive data from a portable IT system stolen despite all precautionary measures, an encryption program should be used. With the help of marketable products, it is possible to encrypt individual files, certain areas or the entire hard disk in such a way that only the person with the secret key is able to encrypt the files To read and use data.

The security of the encryption depends centrally on three different points:

* The encryption algorithm used must be constructed so that it is not possible to reconstruct the plaintext from the encrypted text without knowing the key used. Not possible here means that the required effort to break the algorithm or to decode is in no relation to the information gain that can be achieved thereby.
* The key is suitable to choose. If possible, a key should be randomly generated. If it is possible to choose a key as a password, the rules in this regard should be taken from M 2.11 Password Usage.
* The encryption algorithm (the program), the encrypted text, and the keys may not be stored together on a disk. It is advisable to keep the key individually. This can be done by writing it on a cardboard card in the form of a check card and then storing it in the wallet like a bank card. The cryptographic keys should be stored on a removable disk such as a hard disk. It can be stored on a floppy disk, chip card or USB stick and stored separately from the portable IT system (eg in the wallet).


Encryption can be done online or offline. Online means that all hard drive (or partition) data is encrypted without the user having to actively do so. Offline encryption is explicitly initiated by the user. He then has to decide which files should be encrypted. For the selection and use of cryptographic methods, module B 1.7 CryptoConcept should also be considered.

In the field of public administration, the BSI may provide an off-line encryption program for use on stationary and portable PCs under certain conditions that meets the security requirements of normal protection needs.



