#M 4.391 Safe operation of OpenLDAP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to maintain the security of OpenLDAP during operation, a series of steps must be taken regularly to detect any problems in a timely manner.

In particular, the following aspects should be considered when operating OpenLDAP:

* It must be ensured that the slapd server is started with the intended configuration. The -f [path / filename] parameter specifies a slapd.conf to use, and the -f [path] parameter specifies a slapd-config directory to use. It is important that the configurations do not complement each other when both parameters are used at the same time, but that the slap-config configuration is overridden by the slapd.conf configuration.
* The slapd server should be limited to the required protocols at startup with the -h [protocols] parameter, for example -h ldaps: //.
* The slapd server is to be limited to a runtime directory by the parameter -r [directory] (chroot mechanism). This directory must contain all configuration files and databases.
* Before stopping the slapd server, it should be checked whether it is still performing operations or connections to clients (see M 4.407 Logging when using OpenLDAP). This is especially true for operations that are discontinued during a reboot, such as indexing). The slapd server does not have a stop command, but it must be stopped to stop, for example, kill -INT 'cat /usr/local/var/slapd.pid'.
* Changes to the configuration must be carefully documented, so that it is possible at any time to understand who made any changes and for what reason. For the changes to the configuration files it is recommended to use a revision control program (eg git, mercurial or RCS). Thus, at any time an earlier state of the configuration can be restored and it remains comprehensible who made which changes for what reason.
* After every change of the configuration, it must first be checked with the program slaptest, whether the syntax of the configuration file is correct. Otherwise, syntax errors in the configuration file may cause the slapd server not to start or cause security gaps.
* After every change of access authorizations, the slapacl program must be used to check whether the change that has just been made is effective.
* The administrators must inform themselves about current security gaps in the software used in good time (see also M 2.35 Obtaining information about security gaps in the system). Information about newly discovered vulnerabilities is published by the developers of OpenLDAP in the Issue Tracking System at http://www.openldap.org/its.
* The measures described in M 2.64 Control of the log files must also be implemented for OpenLDAP. The location and scope of the logs are based on M 4.407 logging when using OpenLDAPab.
* For safe operation, regular emergency preparedness and data protection measures are also included (see M 6.136 Creating an emergency plan for the failure of a Samba server and M 6.150 data backup when using OpenLDAP).




