#M 4.247 Restrictive authorization on client operating systems as of Windows Vista
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Overall, Windows permissions can be assigned in the following areas:

* File system
* Registration,
* System authorizations or user authorizations,
* Permissions to access shares in client / server networks and home networks,
* Rights to execute files, scripts and installations,
* Integrittsstufen.


All authorizations are generally restrictive, that is, the so-called need-to-know or least-privilege strategies must be implemented (see also S 4.149 File and share permissions under Windows). This applies without exception to all areas in which authorizations can be granted. The authorization concept specified in the run-up to the introduction of Windows must be implemented (see S 2.325 Planning of security guidelines for Windows clients as of Windows XP).

For high to very high protection requirements of individual applications, the authorizations may be restricted beyond the above-mentioned measures, whereby the functionality and possibly also the stability is limited. For clients as of Windows Vista, the cost of developing and testing a limited, stable running system can be very high.

Below are recommendations for the above areas:



## Examples 
* Have all authorizations been restricted by the so-called need-to-know or least privilege strategies?
* Has a restrictive authorization concept been defined and implemented for applications under Windows?
* Has the Everyone security group been deprived of write permissions within system folders?
* Are share permissions not granted to integrated system groups such as Authenticated Users or Everyone?
* Are the restrictive authorizations coordinated with patch management and network and system management?




