#M 4.205 Logging on routers and switches
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Routers and switches usually provide logging capabilities. The evaluation of this information allows the assessment of the correct functioning of the device and the detection of attack attempts. With the aid of the logging information, the type of attack attempt can often be reconstructed and the configuration adjusted accordingly.

Therefore, logging should always be used and carefully set up. Careful configuration is particularly important, as the relevant data can only be extracted from the large amount of information if it is sensibly filtered. This includes, above all, the recognition of rejected access attempts and changes to the configuration.

Since log files contain personal data in most cases, it must be ensured that this data is only used for the purpose of data protection control, data backup or to ensure proper operation (M 2.110 data protection aspects during logging). The scope of the logging and the criteria for its evaluation should be documented and agreed within the organization. If necessary, the respective co-determination bodies should be involved in good time.

The following information should be logged if possible:

* configuration changes
* reboots
* System error
* Status changes per interface, system and network segment
* Login errors (at least if they occur repeatedly)
* Violation of ACL rules (denied access attempts)


In particular, the last point should be activated for each ACL in order to detect all failed attempts and to detect incorrect or incorrectly configured rules.

Depending on the manufacturer, some aspects may not be captured by logging. examples are

* Change of permissions
* Password changes
* Changes via SNMP
* Storing a new configuration in the NVRAM


In that case, other means of checking should be considered to at least be able to establish that changes have been made.

As a rule, the information to be logged is assigned to different classes. This allows logging to be filtered by specifying the logging class to be issued in the configuration.

In addition to suitable storage of the information, the most timely evaluation is of particular importance. There are different output options for this, which can be used in combination with each other in combination with each other:



## Examples 
* Are personal data used in the log files only for the purpose of data protection control, data backup or to ensure proper operation?
* Is the scope of logging and the criteria for their evaluation documented and coordinated?
* Are defaults defined how a timely evaluation of the protocol information is to be carried out?
* Are the logging information provided with a correct timestamp?




