#M 4.421 Securing Windows PowerShell
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Windows PowerShell (WPS) is a .NET-based scripting environment for interactive system administration using what are known as cmdlets. WPS can also run administrative scripts. Scripts are a collection of individual commands that are stored in a text file and called from the command line.

If the WPS is not needed, it should be uninstalled.

As of Windows 7, the PowerShell scripting environment can only be removed by uninstalling the .NET Framework. If this is necessary for other applications, the following security aspects must be considered for the PowerShell environment:

On 64-bit systems, a 32-bit PowerShell and a 64-bit PowerShell exist in parallel. The 32-bit environment uses the 32-bit SysWOW64 emulation layer to access the file system and the registry. SysWOW64 may cause malfunction while accessing system areas. In addition, 32-bit scripts may be incompatible with the 64-bit environment and vice versa. Therefore, on 64-bit systems, only the 64-bit PowerShell should be used. Scripts created and tested on a 32-bit system should not be used on a 64-bit system.

With the release of version 3.0, the functionality of PowerShell has been increased by the introduction of new cmdlets. Another new feature is PowerShell Web Access, which also lets you use PowerShell through a web browser, so you can apply it to devices that are not compatible with the current version of PowerShell (eg Mobile devices). To use it on another server, you need to enable PowerShell Remote Assistance and set up a PowerShell Web Access Gateway. The version of PowerShell installed on the system can be determined using the get-host command.

Protection against unwanted changes

If PowerShell is running with administrator privileges enabled, it will have full access to the computer. Incorrect entries could thus lead to damage, or unwanted scripts (malware) can make far-reaching accesses to the system. For this reason, we recommend that you do not run PowerShell under unrestricted administrator privileges. As a general rule, only those commands should be executed with administrator privileges that are required and familiar to the calling administrator. If the User Account Control (UAC) is active on the system, the normal PowerShell console does not have administrator privileges.



## Examples 
* .ps1 files: Windows PowerShell shell script
* .ps1xml files: Windows PowerShell format and type definitions
* .psc1 files: Windows PowerShell console file (exported shell configuration)
* .psd1 files: Windows PowerShell data file
* .psm1 files: Windows PowerShell module file




