#M 4.243 Administration tools on Windows client operating systems
Responsible for initiation: Administrator

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The command-line based tool secedit is already known from Windows 2000. It allows you to automate tasks when configuring security settings. Among other things, this tool can be used to automatically create, apply and analyze templates. One of its key features is the ability to reconcile existing Group Policy settings with a sample set. It should be noted that some of the secedit functionality has been outsourced to the gpupdate tool in Windows XP. If you call secedit from the command line under Windows Vista and Windows 7, the command line process must have been started with explicit administrator rights (execute as administrator).

The analysis of the current settings can also be performed with the MMC Snap-in Security Configuration and Analysis. The results are compared to secedit processed and presented graphically. It should be noted that neither the secedit tool nor the MMC snap-in security configuration and analysis can be used to configure and analyze the defined parameters in administrative templates.

Security templates are edited on Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 with the MMC Snap-in Security Templates. Because the security templates are simple text files, they can also be edited with a common text editor. This may be necessary, among other things, for specifying additional registry keys.

If the settings of a group policy change, the configuration changes only take effect with a delay, which is specified by the processing settings of the group policies. To immediately propagate the changes for a user or computer, the command line tool gpupdate can be used as of Microsoft Windows XP. This tool replaces the Windows 2000 command secedit / refreshpolicy.

The command-line tool gpresult can be used on a Windows client from Windows XP to list the result of all configured group policies. Among other things, it serves to find out what happens when a particular user logs on to a specific computer (gpresult / r / s: computername / u: username). This tool can be used primarily for troubleshooting or to document the applicable settings.

A similar functionality to gpresult is provided by the MMC Snap-in RSoP (rsop.msc). This tool can not only be used to document the current settings (logging mode), but also to play through other scenarios (planning mode).

This can be used to simulate a policy implementation that is immensely important, especially in the design phase, and that can preserve many implementation errors, especially with complex Group Policy structures and hierarchies.

The Group Policy Management Console (GPMC) tool, which is freely available from Microsoft, provides much better management of group policies in Active Directory than the standard Windows 2000 and XP snap-ins. The tool is included with a standard installation of Windows Vista. This tool provides advanced functionality that is very important for managing Group Policy in Active Directory:

* Create, link and delete GPOs
* Import the settings from secured GPOs,
* Creation of GPO reports, which can be used for documentation purposes and others
* Back up and restore GPOs. Last but not least, GPMC offers a scripting interface that can be used in a variety of administrative tasks. The use of GPMC is therefore strongly recommended in Active Directory environments. As of Windows 7, the GPMC was replaced by the RSAT (Remote Server Administration Tool).


The GPOAccelerator tool supports Group Policy configurations for operating Windows Vista clients in a domain if domain controllers are not already running Windows Server 2008. Group Policy configuration must then be done from a Windows Vista client. On the client, a domain administrator can use the GPOAccelerator tool to create the necessary Group Policy configurations. Afterwards they have to be transferred to the sysvol folder of the domain controller. The GPO Accelerator tool has been replaced by the Microsoft Security Compliance Manager Suite since Windows 7.

Another useful tool is the migration table editor mtedit, which comes with the GPMC. This tool makes it easy to create migration tables that can be used during cross-domain copying or importing of a security policy. Using migration tables, you can modify domain-specific information, such as group names or SIDs.

To configure monitoring policies, the auditpol tool is available on Windows Vista and Windows 7.

Microsoft provides the Baseline Security Analyzer (MBSA), a tool that can be used to automatically evaluate patch states. The use of this tool provides the administrators with an up-to-date overview of the patch status of the systems and thus contributes significantly to overall security (see M 4.249 Keeping Windows client systems up to date).

The Problem Steps Recorder (PSR) from Microsoft makes it easier for users to document emerging problems for administrators in a meaningful and comprehensible way. The tool is available as of Windows 7 and documents, as soon as it has been activated, all user input. The tool generates screenshots of the affected IT system and marks and describes the user's input. In addition, the user can add their own comments to a screenshot to describe the problem in more detail. The PSR generates a ZIP file that contains an MHT file describing the problem. It should be fundamentally stated in a statement that:

* Windows with confidential screen contents should be closed or minimized during problem recording,
* no passwords or other authentication data and
* no confidential information is entered.


Furthermore, for the transmission of the generated ZIP / MHT file, a communication method that is reasonably secure with regard to the content of this file must be selected.

All of these tools should be used by administrators to troubleshoot or during design and test phases. Using these tools helps to discover and avoid configuration weaknesses.



