#M 4.365 Use of a terminal server as a graphical firewall
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In principle, accessibility to an insecure network and the protection of core values ??in a secure IT infrastructure pose a trade-off.

On the one hand, for example, Internet services with active content must be used. On the other hand, access is provided by applications that each have access to the insecure network. In classic client-server networks, these applications are protected behind port, packet or application filters on the client and in the context of the user. A compromise of the client software threatens security of the client, as well as that of the internal network. Terminal servers provide additional security by encapsulating the applications on a separate IT system by accessing the insecure network through the terminal server. A terminal server that accesses the insecure network instead of the client is called a graphical firewall.

Viruses, worms or other malicious software can never be executed on the client of the user when planning and implementing a graphical firewall, as only image information and input and output data are transferred between the terminal server and the terminal ,

In the design of a graphical firewall, essentially two, if necessary, supplementary objectives play a role.

* The protection of the internal IT systems from the insecure external network.
* Preventing confidential data from escaping into the external network through technical defects, malware or sabotage. The strict prohibition of any exchange of information between the internal and the external network, for example via the file transfer or the clipboard, considerably reduces the practical benefits.




In both cases, however, it is important for the effectiveness of the measure that the communication into the insecure network takes place exclusively via the graphical firewall. In addition, as shown in the figure above, the terminal server should be located in a segregated zone (DMZ, demilitarized zone of the security gateway) so as not to compromise the internal network in case of compromise.

Table: Protocols and port numbers of various Terminal Server solutions

If necessary it is necessary to open further ports in order to eg. grant access to the file server or printing services in the LAN. In order to avoid this, in some solutions the data traffic for various services can be transmitted directly in the data stream of the terminal server protocol. Protocols that offer this option using virtual channels include the RDP protocol of the Windows Terminal Server or ICA on Citrix Metaframe, Presentation Server, or XenApp. In addition, there is the possibility of tunneling using SSH z. B. to use for the X-Window system, which is inherently unable to do so.

Furthermore, when using X-Window, the technical features of the X11 protocol must be taken into account. While in the usual procedures the terminal fetches the output from the terminal server, in X-Window the applications, and thus in this case the graphical firewall, actively send their screen outputs to the X server running on the user's client is performed. As a consequence, the port 6000 in the router must be routed from the DMZ into the LAN. For each additional client in the LAN that communicates via the terminal server, another port above the port number 6000 must be opened. In this scenario, this results in a large number of additions to the internal network and should be avoided. Instead, setting up the connection via a SSH tunnel or a VPN is recommended.

Due to the special risk of the graphical firewall, the use of a virus scanner, according to M.4.4 use of virus protection programs, is obligatory. The measure M 5.163 Restrictive rights assignment on terminal servers and M 4.368 Regular audits of the terminal server environment ensure that the principle of least authorization prevails.



