#M 4.31 Ensuring the energy supply in mobile use
Responsible for initiation: user

Responsible for implementation: users

In order to be able to maintain the energy supply of an IT system even in mobile use, batteries or batteries are usually used. These can power the device for a limited period of time, usually a few hours, depending on the capacity and design of the mobile device. It is difficult to estimate this period more accurately because it depends strongly on the age of the accumulator and the intensity of use of the terminal. Thus, the battery discharges significantly faster in mobile video conferencing than in normal telephone calls. In order to avoid losing data in volatile memory (especially in older devices) after the operating voltage has dropped, some boundary conditions should be met:

* The warnings of the mobile terminal (if any) indicating the voltage drop should not be ignored. They should be configured so that after the first warning there is still enough time to For example, to store important data or close open programs.
* If a longer-term mobile use is foreseeable, the batteries must first be completely recharged and, if necessary, replaced. In addition, there are so-called battery packs for many mobile devices, which can be connected via an external interface.
* Especially with older batteries, the usage times are shortened and the discharge towards the end of the capacity can be done very quickly. Therefore, regular files must be saved in order to avoid data loss. Since such batteries can discharge quickly even in stand-by mode, the state of charge should be checked regularly. In case of an emergency, backups of the configuration data of the laptop or PDA should be carried out. It is recommended to replace the battery as soon as such aging phenomena occur.
* When charging, the instructions in the manual of the mobile IT system should be observed, so that the life of the battery is not affected.
* Before traveling or handing over a mobile IT system, ensure that the batteries or batteries are sufficiently charged. The state of charge should be checked regularly, as a battery discharges even when it is not in use.
* The charger should always be carried. Only in exceptional cases, for example, predictable short mobile use, it is unnecessary.


* Before traveling or handing over a mobile IT system, ensure that the batteries or batteries are sufficiently charged. The charge level of the batteries should be checked regularly, as a battery discharges over time even when it is not in use.
* The charger should be included as an option.


In addition, it is recommended to store the processed data on a non-volatile medium at short intervals while using the mobile IT system. Automatic backups in standard programs can also be used for this purpose.

If a longer use of the mobile IT system is foreseeable, eg. For business trips, a charged spare battery should be included. The replacement battery should be kept in a protective case, as damage may be caused by overheating or fire when the contacts of the battery come into contact with conductive materials. This can be caused by many items of everyday use such as keys or chains.

Any kind of IT system should be switched off before changing the battery so that the memory is not damaged.



