#M 4.306 Dealing with password storage tools
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: user, IT security officer

Most people need to remember a variety of passwords, PINs and other authentication secrets, both at work and privately. This always leads to problems. Typical examples of this are that users forget their passwords so that they have to be reset in complex processes, or that they record them and keep them insecure.

To avoid such problems, the technical tools are products that can manage a variety of passwords, PINs, and other authentication secrets. Such password storage tools, also called password safes, are available both as software-only solutions and in combination with standalone hardware. When using password storage tools, various aspects must be considered (see also M 2.22 Storing the password):

A deposit or storage of passwords is always associated with organizational effort. Each time one of the saved passwords is changed, it must also be updated in the password storage tool. You must not forget a password.

Before a password storage tool is used, the protection requirements of the passwords that are to be stored with it must be estimated. Not all password tools are suitable for storing high-passwords. On the other hand, they help users to select different, yet complex, passwords for each application.

If a tool is to be used to store passwords, the requirements for such tools described below must be observed.

* It must not be possible for unauthorized persons to access the saved passwords. Every access to the password storage tool should be logged.
* A password storage tool should be simple and intuitive to use. There should be no restrictions on the length and character composition of the securely stored passwords. It should be possible to use long and complex master passwords, this should be technically required as well.
* A password storage tool must under no circumstances offer the possibility that users can log on without entering a master password or that the master password can be automatically marked by the tool.
* After a specified inactivity period, the tool should automatically log off the logged in user.
* Passwords may be stored unencrypted. For this, a recognized encryption procedure with sufficient key length must have been selected.
* Prior to obtaining a password tool, journals and Internet forums should investigate whether they have reviews, tests, or even descriptions of successful attacks on the tools in question. Likewise, it should be checked regularly that no security gaps have become known in the tools used.
* Unfortunately, there have been and still are password storage tools that have been found to have serious security concerns. For example, master passwords were stored in plain text in the main memory or stored in the clipboard. Therefore, as far as possible only security-verified password tools should be used (see M 2.66 Considering the Contribution of Certification for Procurement).
* Since access to password storage tools must be very well secured, it may be useful to use products with special security hardware. This can z. B. password tools on USB tokens or smart card.
* As a protection against keyloggers, it may also be useful to use a password tool in which the passwords are entered via a mouse-controlled on-screen keyboard. This should on the one hand offer numbers as well as letters and special characters, so that as many passwords as possible can be selected. On the other hand, the characters should be displayed dynamically in the on-screen keyboard, ie the characters should be located after each entry in a different location. This makes the input slower for users, but makes it harder for malicious software to read the password based on the character position on the screen.
* Entering the master password should be quick and easy. Especially for password memory tools with built-in input keys and when using on-screen keyboards, the procedure for entering the master password should be checked carefully. If the input takes too long here, for example because individual characters have to be selected with difficulty, the master password can be spelled out very easily and user acceptance is endangered.
* If a password storage tool with an external power supply, such. B. via a battery, is to be checked, which happens after a power failure with the passwords. It may then be necessary to provide additional data backups, which must also be adequately protected.


In addition, the following basic conditions must be observed when using tools for storing passwords:

* Access to password storage tools must be enabled again by a successful login. Also for this passwords or PINs are generally used. Naturally the highest demands should be placed on their quality. Master passwords used for this must be long and varied (see M 2.11 Control of password usage).
* Unsuccessful login attempts should be rejected with a short error message without further details. In particular, in the case of unsuccessful login attempts, it must not be possible to determine whether the user name entered or the entered password (or both) is incorrect. After three consecutive incorrect password entries for the same user account, the authentication system should block access for the respective user account (for a certain period of time or permanently). The blocking of a user account may also not be recognizable during subsequent unsuccessful login attempts, but should be communicated to the respective user in a separate way.
* It is even better, if unsuccessful login attempts no error message, but a usual user interface to display. Then, when real-looking but useless results are displayed, an attacker can not immediately tell you that the displayed password is not the correct one.
* As far as possible, password tools should only be used on trustworthy IT systems, ie those IT systems that are under the control or supervision of one's own institution. These can be, for example, mobile phones, PDAs or special authentication servers.
* External web-based password storage services should only be used if the reliability of the service provider is commensurate with the protection requirements of the passwords. In any case, not all credit card details, including the PIN, should be stored here, as it is difficult to verify the reliability and security of such a service.
* It should only be checked for security and password-enabled tools released in the institution.


At the institution, all staff should be made aware of whether password storage tools can be used. If this is the case, announce the released tools. There should then also be a regulation which describes which types of passwords can be stored with them and which framework conditions must be adhered to.



