#M 4.249 Keep Windows client systems up to date
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The past has shown that security-related updates or patches that Microsoft regularly publishes must be installed in a timely manner. In practice, however, this often leads to problems, because the updates must on the one hand be recorded as quickly as possible, on the other hand, they should be extensively tested before installation. There is no universal solution to this problem. Here, a suitable compromise must be met that meets the requirements for safety and practicability.

M 2.273 Timely import of security-relevant patches and updates must be taken into account during planning.

* There must be a process for dealing with patches and updates at the organizational level (eg in the context of change management).
* The process must not only consider updates and patches for Windows systems, but also applications that are in use (for example, Microsoft Internet Explorer, Microsoft Office, and especially third-party software).
* Administrators must regularly check for vulnerabilities and available security updates.
* Importing and checking the updates on a test system must be ensured.
* There must be a strategy for restoring the functionality of the systems in the event of a problem.




## Examples 
* Updates are downloaded automatically and installed according to the defined schedule (in Windows XP without Service Pack 1 this functionality is only available in the updated version of Automatic Updates Software).
* Updates are downloaded automatically, but there is no automatic installation. The user will be informed about available updates.
* If new updates are available, the administrator will only be notified, the updates will not be downloaded.
* As of Windows Vista, updates that are recommended but not critical can be immediately excluded from automatic installation directly on individual clients (Windows Update | Change Settings | Recommended Updates). Normally, however, the selection of updates should be set centrally by means of software distribution.




