#M 4.310 Setting up LDAP access to directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) is a protocol used to access data from a directory service. LDAP was originally developed as an alternative to Directory Access Protocol (DAP) defined by the X.500 Directory standard. The underlying data model and possible operations within the protocol were essentially adopted by the X.500 standard. The current version of the protocol, LDAP Version 3, has become the dominant standard for accessing directory services.

Directory services almost all have an LDAP interface. This allows, among other things, the following usage scenarios:

* The directory service is placed on the Internet, for example as a so-called certificate database. Users access it via the Internet using a suitable LDAP-enabled software client.
* The directory service is used on an institution's intranet to manage user accounts or resources on the network. Then, in addition to direct user access via an LDAP client, it is also possible to access network applications.


In both cases, the LDAP access must be configured according to the previously defined security policy (see M M 2.405 Creating a security policy for the use of directory services).

Directory services basically allow anonymous login of LDAP clients. By default, the LDAP client has the access rights that are entered for the object in the directory service. It is a virtual object that is used only for the rights assignment in the directory service. Any access to objects in the directory tree is automatically at least with the rights granted to this public object.

If anonymous users are to be granted access to individual subareas of the directory tree, then a separate user account, a so-called proxy user, must be set up for anonymous LDAP access. This anonymous access does not require authentication, it is not necessary to give this account a password. Care should be taken that this anonymous user account itself can not set up a password, otherwise the anonymous access could be blocked by a client. Furthermore, the access rights for this proxy user should be granted with sufficient restrictions. They should be completely withdrawn when the account is no longer needed.

Especially with an anonymous access, the search possibilities should be limited by LDAP accesses. For example, if the server provides the associated e-mail address after entering a name or an associated certificate for an e-mail address, search filters should only be used to a limited extent. The e-mail address and only this (not the associated Distinguished Name) should be returned to the requester only after entering the full name or a sufficiently long name part. A certificate should only be delivered back if you enter a complete e-mail address. It should be considered not to allow wildcards, so that such queries can not produce a complete list of all e-mail addresses of the institution. Alternatively, the number of output results can be provided with a low limit. A limit between 1 and 5 is recommended. Otherwise, anonymous users will be able to read the entire directory service, or at least large parts of it, and receive valuable information that can be used as the basis for spam or social engineering attacks (see G 3.89 Incorrect configuration of LDAP access to directory services).

Already when planning the use of a directory service, it must be decided which data may be accessible via an anonymous login (see also M 2.405 Creation of a security guideline for the use of directory services).



## Examples 
* Are all directory service servers that can be addressed from the Internet over LDAP protected by a security gateway?
* If a proxy user has been configured for the LDAP group, are the access rights granted to this proxy user sufficiently restrictive?
* Is communication and transmission sufficiently secured via LDAP?
* Is the search for LDAP access restricted to prevent the unnecessary release of security-sensitive information?




