#M 4.168 Selection of a suitable archive system
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Archive administrator, IT manager

The selection of an archive system takes place on the basis of the specifications defined in the archiving concept (see M 2.243 Development of the archiving concept).

Typically, the following minimum requirements are imposed on the archive system to be used, whereby individual organization-specific requirements are to be added:

* Connection to the existing system environmentThe archive system should have the required interfaces for connection to the existing system environment (network, server, clients, system management). Data input and output systems, such as scanners, word processors, printers, etc., are typically not part of the archive system but are provided at the application level.
* Connection to a document management systemThe archive system should have interfaces for connection to a document management system (DMS).
* Versioning of documents The archive system should support the multiple storage of documents in different versions (versioning).
* Access protection to the archived data The archive system should be able to implement access protection for the archived data and the functions of the archive system. This should be done on the basis of a given authorization concept.


* Multi-level, role-based authorization conceptIn the case of role-based rights assignment, access rights are not assigned to specific users but to defined user groups (roles). In contrast to normal authorization groups, role conflicts are also taken into account in a role-based access model. This means, for example, that a person can not simultaneously assume the role of administrator and auditor.
* LoggingThe archiving system should enable logging that makes all processes related to archiving comprehensible (see also M 4.172 Logging of archive accesses). It should also be possible to define critical events and notify an administrator if they occur.


* Establishment of a user account for the revision For accesses within the framework of the regular revision of the archive system, a corresponding user account with the rights required for the revision should be set up. The concrete assignment of rights is to be defined within the organization. As part of the revision, reading rights (read-only) are typically set up for configuration data and log data.
* Extensibility of the archive system The archive system should be extensible so that it can be adapted to changes in the requirements. Extensibility concerns primarily the storage components and storage media used, but also other hardware changes as well as the archive system software and user licenses.


* Low Access Time The archive system typically requires low access delays while requiring high bandwidth in the transmission and delivery of the requested documents. The requirements must be determined on an organization-specific basis. In addition to the integration into the existing system environment, the user behavior to be considered must also be taken into account. The specified requirements affect the selection of the archive media and the storage drives. Similarly, the requirements may influence the selection and sizing of cache components.
* Sufficient capacity of the archive mediaThe archive media should have sufficient capacity. Both the multiple storage of documents for versioning and the expected amount of data should be taken into account in capacity planning.


* System-controlled loading or unloading of archive media The archive system should generally support a system-supported removal of archive media from drives. This is to ensure that archive media are removed only after controlled offline switching (unmount) and in compliance with appropriate access rights and the removal can be logged. The same applies to the online switching (mount) of archive media. This is necessary to ensure consistent use of the archive media. For emergencies, all archive systems and drives typically provide manual means of extracting archive media.
* Capacity monitoring of the archive mediaThe remaining capacity of the archive media in use must be constantly monitored. If a residual capacity limit is undershot, signaling or alarming must take place.


* Alerting and Signaling The archive system must allow the signaling of system messages to cross-system management environments. If no connection to a system management environment is planned, individual alarms via e-mail, SMS or SNMP should be possible.
* Adhering to standards Compliance with standards facilitates interoperability between individual components. This is necessary because it must be expected that individual components must be replaced during the operating period or the system should be expanded. Standards are relevant in the following areas: archive media and recording methods (see M 4.169 Use of suitable archive media), file formats and compression methods (see M 4.170 Selection of suitable data formats for archiving documents), document management systems (see M 2.259 Introduction of higher-level document management).


It should be considered to protect the data by encryption and digital signature. However, this is typically not implemented by the archive system but at the application level, eg. through the document management system.

An exception is the basic encryption of archive media by the archive system. This is intended to prevent misuse of the archive medium outside the archive system. However, this basic encryption is not required for the IT-Grundschutz.



