#M 4.294 Secure configuration of access points
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Under no circumstances may access points be used in the configuration of the delivery condition or with settings z. B. for SSID (Service Set Identifier), access passwords or cryptographic keys that are mentioned in the manuals of the product.

The following settings should be made or changed to individual, safe values:

* As far as possible, administrative access to the access points should generally be deactivated via the air interface.
* All administration passwords should be as complex as possible and changed regularly.


* Unsafe administration accesses (eg via Telnet, HTTP) should be switched off as far as possible. In any case, administrative access must be via an encrypted connection (eg via SSL or SSH).
* The default SSIDs, cryptographic keys or passwords must be changed immediately after commissioning.
* The SSID should not give any indication of the owner or purpose of a WLAN. Likewise, the SSID should not be set to Any, because otherwise any WLAN component can participate in the communication.
* The SSID broadcast should be deactivated so that the existence of the WLAN is not unnecessarily communicated. Furthermore, the association should be deactivated via SSID broadcast so that the client must explicitly specify the desired SSID during the association.
* Suitable encryption mechanisms must be activated. At the same time, it must be ensured that all components in the WLAN support them. It must not be possible to establish connections with WLAN components that have no or only insufficient encryption mechanisms.
* Cryptographic keys should be chosen as randomly as possible and changed regularly. A complex pre-shared key (PSK) should be used when using WPA-PSK or WPA2-PSK. If cryptographic keys like the PSK are generated via a password, then a password with a high complexity of at least 20 characters should be selected.


* To limit the authorized communication partners of an access point, access control lists (ACLs) should be used at the MAC address level. This is especially useful for small to very small Wi-Fi installations. As a sole instrument, however, it is generally unable to provide sufficient security, particularly in WLAN (due to its easy portability), since MAC addresses can easily be changed. Wi-Fi ACLs can only be seen as a weak, additional supplement that makes sense, especially in special situations. Since the security gain is limited, should be weighed in larger networks, whether the security gain justifies the resulting administration costs.
* The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server in the access point should be powered off, if available and technically possible; H. static IP addresses should be assigned and the permissible IP address space should be kept as small as possible. Otherwise, the DHCP server will automatically assign a valid IP address to an intruder.
* When using several access points, the frequency channels used by neighboring access points should be selected as far as possible without overlapping.
* Changes to the system configuration must be tested and documented.
* It must be checked regularly, if all security-relevant updates and patches have been recorded. This is also to be taken into account for the corresponding device drivers of the WLAN hardware on the WLAN clients. A new software version or patch should only be installed after a reasonable test in the WLAN. It has already happened in practice that after a software update, the WLAN communication was only limited or even no longer possible. Reporting and information procedures should be specified in the change management which describe who and how to inform about such changes. Likewise, the documentation of the WLAN infrastructure has to be adapted.
* If WLAN components are not used for a long time, they should be switched off. Access points should be automatically deactivated outside working hours (eg at night and on weekends).


These tasks can be meaningfully supported and monitored by the use of a WLAN management software and by integration into a central network management.



