#M 4.353 Use of DNSSEC
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) is not yet widely used, despite conceptual vulnerabilities in the DNS protocol and weaknesses in DNS software. This was made clear, for example, by the design weakness in the DNS protocol, which was demonstrated in the summer of 2008. This design flaw makes cache poisoning attacks (and thus other attack methods) much easier. In the short term, this design weakness can be circumvented by using cryptographically strong random numbers as an ID and a random source port for requests. In the long run, problems and crises like these can only be solved by DNSSEC. DNSSEC was specifically designed to protect DNS against a large number of attacks, including cache poisoning attacks.

This is achieved by asymmetric cryptography, therefore the measure M 2.46 Appropriate key management must be realized in connection with this measure.

At DNSSEC, all zone information is signed with a private key. These signatures can be verified by using the associated public key. The key pair is called Zone Signing Key (ZSK). If a DNSSEC-supporting resolver makes a request to a DNS server on which DNSSEC is configured, the server sends back the domain information with the signatures in response. The resolver can verify the correctness of the domain information by using the signature and the public key.

To ensure the authenticity of the ZSK, it is signed using key-signing keys (KSK). A hash value of the public part of the KSK is transmitted to the higher-level domain. The parent domain uses its keys to sign the hash value and confirm the authenticity of the hash value. This creates a chain of trust. If the higher-level domain does not use DNSSEC, it has no keys and can not create a signature to confirm the authenticity of the KSK. However, you can tell your DNS servers to trust your own keys, thus creating islands of trust. With a higher penetration rate of DNSSEC, these trusted islands become larger and thus the security level higher. DNSSEC offers the following security mechanisms:

* The source of the DNS information is authenticated.
* The integrity of the domain information is ensured, so domain information can no longer be manipulated because the signature makes this manipulation visible. For example, customers can be sure to communicate with the right web server, mail server, etc.
* If a domain name does not exist, an authenticated error message is sent.


Keys ZSK and KSK must be carefully managed and regularly exchanged as described in measure M 2.46 Appropriate Key Management. Since more data is being signed with the ZSK, these are to be replaced more often. Depending on the size of the signed zones, a change in the timeframe of one to three months represents a suitable level of safety. The KSK should switch to the project at the latest after one year. If the KSK and ZSK reach the public, the keys must be exchanged immediately.

Through the use of DNSSEC and the necessary cryptographic operations, it is necessary to adjust the performance capacity of DNS servers, in particular the computing power may need to be increased. It must be ensured that the response time is kept low, even during load peaks.



