#M 4.300 Information protection for printers, copiers and multifunction devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

For a printout to be created, the required information must be transferred from the workstation to the printer. For copiers, the transfer generally occurs internally between the scanner unit and the storage. An attacker could try to access the memory or listen to the information while it is transferring to the printer.

As temporary storage for the temporary storage of the information to be printed, hard disks are often used with larger devices. Depending on the configuration, the information in the cache is stored not only temporarily, but permanently. It should be ensured that the information is deleted from the buffer after printing. For this, many copiers have a deletion function. All users must be advised to use this function consistently (see M 2.398 User Guidelines for the Handling of Printers, Copiers and Multifunction Devices).

If you often print or copy information with a higher protection requirement, it is important to remember that simple deletion is not enough to prevent the recovery of the deleted data. Some devices have mechanisms for safe erasure. This is a deletion function with additional overwriting. If such a function exists, it must be activated. Otherwise, adequate alternative solutions must be found.

If possible, you should take action that would make it difficult for an attacker to gain physical access to the hard drive or to remove the hard drives. To detect if an attempt was made to expand or manipulate the internal memory, the devices should be sealed. In general, printers and copiers should be set up so that no one can get at them unobserved.

For added protection, it is recommended that the information be encrypted in the internal memory. Many printers and copiers offer this feature. If the device you are using supports encrypted storage, this feature should be enabled.

The communication between workstations, print servers and network printers usually takes place via a data network, for which the same dangers as with other data connections must be observed. So that this communication can not be intercepted, the print jobs should therefore be encrypted as far as possible.

Some print protocols, such as the LPR / LPD (Line Printer Remote / Line Printer Daemon) protocol, which is widely used in Unix systems, do not support encryption. The situation is similar for SMB / CIFS (Server Message Block / Common Internet File System) under Windows.

Therefore, a protocol should be chosen, such as Internet Printing Protocol (IPP), which supports encryption, such as TLS / SSL (Transport Layer Security / Secure Sockets Layer) in conjunction with IPP.

On Unix systems, for example, the Common Unix Printing System (CUPS) should be used, which uses the IPP protocol for newer versions in the default setting for communication between client and print server. With a corresponding configuration TLS / SSL can be activated.



