#M 4.420 Secure use of the maintenance center under Windows 7
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Windows 7 maintenance center is a further development of the security center. The security center has been used by Microsoft since Windows Vista. The maintenance center is available without any differences in functionality in all Windows 7 editions.

In the maintenance center, security settings, maintenance settings and troubleshooting can be centrally monitored and configured. The maintenance center is dependent on the following Windows services, which cause problems to be automatically diagnosed and reported to the user through the maintenance center:

* Diagnostic Policy Service (DPS): This Windows service allows problem detection and troubleshooting on Windows. The problems can have various causes, such as memory, hard disk, or network problems. The service diagnoses problems and then reports them to the user through the maintenance center.
* Diagnostic Service Host (WDiSvcHost): This Windows service is required for analytics that must run as a local service. The service is directly dependent on the diagnostic policy service.
* Diagnostic System Host (WDiSystemHost): This Windows service diagnoses, handles, and resolves issues that are directly related to Windows components. The service is directly dependent on the diagnostic policy service.
* Windows Error Reporting Service (WerSvc): The error reporting service collects information about existing problems and provides existing solution suggestions. It also generates problem reports that can be sent to Microsoft as needed to provide further solutions.


Troubleshooting is a collection of applications that collects information and solutions to existing problems that can occur with Windows 7-based IT systems. You will need an internet connection to query solution suggestions from Microsoft. Furthermore, new solution approaches and components on Microsoft servers are regularly searched for and downloaded. To not send any institution or computer specific configurations to Microsoft, this setting should be disabled.

When a specific problem occurs, data is collected and sent to Microsoft to receive specific solution suggestions on the Windows client. Which data are in the individual case, can be taken from the details of the problem report. The problem report always contains information about the operating system as well as the hardware and software of the IT system. Personal data may also be included. If a problem has been detected, troubleshooting can try to resolve it on its own. For this purpose, it makes configuration changes to the system.

For the safe use of the maintenance center and its functions, the following aspects should be implemented:

Because the Windows services interact with other services, you should always keep the default Windows service startup settings. Otherwise it would be possible that important Windows services are not working properly.

In addition, the following settings should be implemented via Group Policy for each Windows 7 based IT system:

* Setting: Get the latest troubleshooting from the Windows online troubleshooting service
* Path in the Control Panel: Control Panel | All Control Panel Items | troubleshooting
* Group Policy Paths:
* Computer Configuration | Guidelines | Administrative Templates | System | Troubleshooting and Diagnosis | Microsoft Support Diagnostic Tool | Restrict tooldownload
* Computer Configuration | Guidelines | Administrative Templates | System | Troubleshooting and Diagnosis | Microsoft Support Diagnostic Tool | Configure the execution level
* Recommendation: disable settings
* Reason: Prevents troubleshooting data from being exchanged with Microsoft Support without the knowledge and consent of the user over the Internet
* Setting: send problem reports
* Path in the Control Panel: nonexistent
* Group Policy Paths:
* Computer Configuration | Guidelines | Administrative Templates | Windows components | Windows Error Reporting | Configure error reporting.
* Computer Configuration | Guidelines | Administrative Templates | System | Internet Communication Management | Internet communication settings | Disable error reporting
* Recommendation: disable settings
* Reason: These settings should be disabled to send non-institution or computer-specific configurations to Microsoft.
* Setting: Periodically send data to Microsoft via Computer Configuration
* Path in the Control Panel: nonexistent
* Group Policy Path:
* Computer Configuration | Administrative Templates | Windows components | Application Compatibility | Deactivate program inventory
* Recommendation: disable settings
* Reason: If this setting is not inhibited by Group Policy, it is possible that data about installed software products will be sent to Microsoft without the user having instructed or learned about it.


To prevent further safety-related functions, the following settings should be configured:

* Setting: Windows backup
* Path in the Control Panel:
* Control Panel | All Control Panel Items | Maintenance Center | Change maintenance center settings  
* Recommendation: Disable setting
* Reason: The message could cause users with local rights on the IT system to create a backup of the data out of ignorance on a local disk. This can not be understood by the IT department, which creates further security risks.
* Setting: Usability program
* Path in the Control Panel:
* Control Panel | All Control Panel Items | Maintenance Center | Maintenance Center Settings  change | Settings for the usability enhancement program
* Recommendation: Disable setting
* Reason: The setting prevents data   from being transmitted to Microsoft via user behavior.
* Setting: Computer maintenance
* Path in the Control Panel:
* Control Panel | All Control Panel Items | Troubleshooting | Change settings
* Recommendation: Activate setting
* Reason: This setting should be turned on, so the computer is scanned for problems and the user is notified of any problems found.
* Setting: Troubleshooting other settings
* Path in the Control Panel:
* Control Panel | All Control Panel Items | Troubleshooting | Change settings
* Recommendation: disable settings
* Justification: These settings should be disabled so that new problem solutions are not downloaded or sent by Microsoft, or problems are solved automatically. This setting is therefore not recommended, as configurations on the IT system should not be changed automatically.


For the handling of the maintenance center and the dialogs that are potentially displayed to the user after the settings have been implemented, a binding regulation should be defined as to how the user should proceed. The regulation should also state whether and when the user may manually start the maintenance center component (see M 2.4 Regulations for maintenance and repair work). Normally, problems that occur during the operation of an IT system should be escalated to the persons provided for them (see M 2.1 Definition of responsibilities and regulations).



