#M 4.379 Secure data storage and safe transport on Mac OS X
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

On Mac OS X, disk images can be created. Disk images are like files, but internally contain their own file system, which can be integrated into the system as a virtual drive by double-clicking. Disk images can be compressed and encrypted. Any Mac OS X system can easily read the disk images created in this way. On other platforms, additional software is required. As a general rule, care should be taken to ensure that Mac OS X confidential information is transported and stored only in an encrypted disk image or by any other suitable encryption method. Users must be trained in handling disk images.

If a disk image is created from an existing directory, two setting options are offered. Once the image format can be selected, for example Compressed, Read Only or Read / Write. For exact images of CDs / DVDs the image format DVD / CD-Master is suitable. On the other hand, encryption is offered. If there is confidential information in the disk image, it should be encrypted. A 256 bit AES encryption as well as a complex password should be selected and trivial passwords should be avoided (see M 2.11 Control of Password Usage).

If a new, empty disk image is to be created, there are additional configuration options available, in contrast to an image from an existing folder. The most important options are setting the maximum size of the disk image as well as the choice of the image format. If a growing bundle image is selected, disk space will only be used if it is needed. The image grows with the added data. However, the growing bundle image does not shrink when data is removed from it. However, full memory can be freed using the hdiutil compact namedesimages command. This command only works on computers that are not in battery mode. Another setting for a newly created disk image is the choice between the common file systems of Apple and Microsoft.

The password for the disk image can also be stored as a secure note in the keyring, just like other sensitive information. Then, however, the actions in M 4.371 configuration of Mac OS X clients are to be implemented. If several people work with a disk image, a central, secure storage location must be selected so that the current password is available to every authorized employee.



