#M 4.16 Access restrictions for user IDs and / or terminals
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If stationary systems that are located in rooms that are not accessible outside of fixed working hours are used at night or at the weekend, this may be an indication of unauthorized use. In order to avoid this, consideration should be given to blocking these IT systems and / or the associated user identifications outside the official working or usage times. Insofar as this is not possible with reasonable effort (for example, in the case of very irregular or frequently changing working hours), the blocking should at least be carried out at times that are generally outside the working or use times.

If employees only work on certain IT systems within the LAN, they should only be able to log on to these IT systems, ie the user IDs on these IT systems should be limited.

Under Unix, the respective user as the owner of the corresponding device driver is to be entered for terminals. Once this has logged off, should automatically root again owner. Only the respective user should have read permission for this. If a user wishes to receive messages (eg, talk) from other system users, he must write to them for the device driver. It must be checked if this is absolutely necessary.

Often, the number of concurrent signups under one account can be limited by several different IT systems. To protect against the unnoticed intrusion of attackers, it was intended to prevent a user from being able to log on to several IT systems at the same time.



