#M 4.15 Secure login
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

You should use a login program or activate options so that the following actions can be performed:

* Each user must have their own ID and password. No access without identifier or password may be possible. As a password replacement, the user's authentication can also be done via electronic signatures, passport tickets or the like.
* The number of unsuccessful login attempts is limited. After each unsuccessful login attempt, the waiting time increases until the next login request. After a certain number of failed attempts, the affected user ID and / or the terminal will be blocked. It should be kept in mind that this does not mean that the administrator can be locked out, and that access to the console must remain open to him.
* The time of the last successful login is reported to the user at login.
* Unsuccessful login attempts are reported to the user at login. It may be necessary to repeat this message for several subsequent logins.
* The time of the last logout is reported to the user at login. A distinction is made here between logouts for an interactive login and those for a non-interactive login (logout of background processes).
* For the login via networks, in which passwords are transmitted unscrambled, the additional use of one-time passwords is recommended (see also M 5.34 Use of one-time passwords).


Special instructions for securing the login process under z / OS can be found in the M 4.213 securing the login procedure under z / OS.



