#M 4.89 emission security
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Every electronic device emits more or less strong electromagnetic waves. This radiation is known as interference radiation and its maximum permissible strength is generally regulated by law, in Germany this is the law about the electromagnetic compatibility of devices (EMVG). For devices that process information (PC, printer, fax machine, modem, etc.), this interference may also carry the information currently being processed. Such information-carrying radiation is called blo stellende radiation. If the bloating radiation at some distance, z. received in a neighboring house or in a parked nearby vehicle, the information can be reconstructed from it. The confidentiality of the data is thus called into question. The limits of the EMC Directive are generally insufficient to prevent the radiation from being radiated off. As a rule, additional measures must be taken.

Blooming radiation can leave a room in different ways:

* In the form of electromagnetic waves that propagate like radio waves through the free space.
* As conducted radiation along metallic conductors (cables, air conditioning ducts, heating pipes).
* By coupling a data cable into parallel cables. On the parallel cable spreads the radiation and can be tapped from this still at a great distance.
* As acoustic radiation, z. B. in printers. The details of the printing process are transmitted via sound or ultrasound and can be recorded with microphones.
* In the form of acoustic coupling to other devices. The sound conversion into electrical signals is carried out by sound-sensitive equipment parts, which under certain conditions can work much like a microphone. The further propagation then takes place along metallic conductors or in the form of electromagnetic radiation.
* Blooming radiation can also be caused by external manipulation of equipment. If z. If, for example, a device is irradiated with high-frequency energy, the electrical processes taking place in the device can influence the radiated waves so that they now carry the processed information with them.


In all cases, the installation, ie the cabling of the devices with each other and with the power supply network, has a significant influence on the propagation and thus also on the range of the radiation.

The BSI develops protective measures that effectively reduce the risk without significantly increasing costs. These include:

* Zone modelThe zone model takes into account the propagation conditions for blooming radiation at the respective building and terrain conditions. The attenuation of the radiation on its way from the causative IT device to the potential receiver is measured. Depending on the conditions at the place of use, devices may be used where only minor or no special measures have been carried out.
* Source decryptionSource de fi ciency is particularly evident in the new development of IT products. Here, the bloating radiation is already suppressed at the point of origin within the device or changed so that it is no longer evaluable. By this method can z. B. the use of low-cost plastic housing are possible with negligible impact on the series price.
* Short measuring methodsThe development of short measuring methods and manipulation test methods allows to ensure emission safety with little effort even after maintenance, repair or possible unauthorized access.
* The use of low-emission and / or radiation-protected devices Manufacturers of PC screens frequently use the term low-radiation according to MPR II, TCO or SSI. These guidelines, however, only take into account the possible harmful effects of equipment radiation. The measuring methods and limit values ??for the radiation are therefore unsuitable for the detection of bloating radiation and, like measurements for electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), do not allow an assessment of the security against unauthorized reading of the data specially protected IT systems offered. A detailed test concept of the BSI is used for graduated testing of IT devices and systems. The basic idea of ??this concept is to adapt the scope of the protective measures as well as possible to the threat situation assumed by the user, in order to achieve optimum radiation safety at minimum cost. Originally, the test concept of the BSI was developed for the protection of state classified information, but it can also be useful in the private sector if data with a high protection requirement regarding confidentiality are to be protected. So z. In many cases, for example, a device tested according to the zone model and approved for use in zones 1-3 (so-called zone 1 device) already has sufficient protection against unauthorized keeping confidential Provide data as a result of harmful radiation. In the case of high or very high confidentiality requirements, it should therefore be checked whether the use of low-radiation or radiation-protected devices is expedient or even necessary. Whether a manufacturer offers radiation-protected devices in accordance with these so-called TEMPEST criteria in its product range should be confirmed by a question to the manufacturer, the BSI or by inspection of the official product overview BSI TL 03305, which is published on the website of the BSI under the keyword Publications is available, be resolved. The statement that there is a TEMPEST approval for a device always includes the statement of the degree of approval (eg approved for use in zones 1-3 according to the zone model). ,




