#M 4.91 Safe installation of a system management system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The installation of a system management system requires extensive and careful planning. After system analysis (see M 2.168 IT system analysis before introducing a system management system), definition of the management strategy (see M 2.169 Developing a system management strategy) and selection of a suitable management system (see M 2.171 Appropriate selection of a system management system). Product), the installation of the product must be planned in detail and implemented accordingly. Depending on the underlying architecture of the management product, the specific management system configuration must be created for the local network, which particularly takes the formulated management strategy into account.

To install most management systems, management software must be installed on the participating computers, which handles communication between the management console or servers and the local computer. Frequently, database systems must also be installed on the central computers (servers or gateways), in which the management information is stored persistently by the management software. Depending on the product, integration of an existing database system is also possible here. In general, the additional software to be installed places demands on the local resources of the computer. For this reason, it must be taken into consideration when planning which system resources are available locally. Under certain circumstances, individual systems must be upgraded. These costs should be taken into account when selecting the management product.

In addition to these criteria, which are essentially intended to guarantee the controlled technical operation of the system, from a safety point of view, the software belonging to the management system and the corresponding data are included in the protection requirements in accordance with IT-Grundschutz (see BSI Standard 100-2 IT-Grundschutz Approach) and classify the protection requirement as high to very high. Compromising the management system can not only result in the failure of the entire network; unnoticed changes to the system can cause considerable damage, which can very quickly take on existence-threatening forms.

In particular, the following points should be noted during installation:

* All computers on which management information is stored must be specially secured: The actions of the modules from layer 3, depending on the existing system, must be carried out. In particular, the operating system mechanisms should be configured in such a way that the locally stored management information is not access to the management software is permitted only to authorized administrators and auditors. Access to the computers should be restricted.
* Communication between management components should be encrypted - if supported by the product - to prevent management information from being tracked and collected. If the product does not support encryption, special measures must be taken to ensure communication (see M 5.68 Use of Encryption Procedures for Network Communication).




