#M 4.321 Secure operation of a VPN
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Due to the transmitted data, VPNs are attractive targets for attackers and must therefore be operated securely. Prerequisites for this are safe installation (M 4.319 Secure installation of VPN terminals) and configuration of the hardware and software components involved (M 4.320 Secure configuration of a VPN). In addition, all organizational processes must have been defined and implemented (eg reporting channels and responsibilities). For this purpose, the recommendations given in measure M 2.418 Creating a security policy for VPN usage must be observed.

Increasingly, it is necessary that the VPN connections of institutions are continuously stable operational. In many institutions, they even have to be available around the clock (24/7 operation). For the smooth running of the VPN operation, an operating concept must therefore be drawn up and a corresponding emergency plan prepared (see M 6.109 Emergency plan for the failure of a VPN). When creating an operating concept, the following aspects in particular must be taken into account.



## Examples 
* For each connection, always perform a user authentication via the selected mechanism. In particular, the sole use of the CLIP mechanism (telephone number transmission) for authentication is not sufficient.
* For each connection, the security of the communication should be enforced by one of the methods allowed in the VPN security concept, so that the transmitted data are sufficiently protected.
* The additional security mechanisms provided by the access technology (use of the telephone number transmission, recall of a preset telephone number for non-mobile or mobile-connected VPN clients) should be used.




