#M 4.344 Monitoring of Windows systems as of Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, auditor

Computer systems should be monitored to maintain system security and system integrity. This is the only way to detect possible security gaps, violations of the applicable security guidelines or even attacks by external and internal devices and to initiate suitable countermeasures.

The monitoring of clients as of Windows Vista and servers as of Windows Server 2008 must be taken into account in the planning phase and relevant parameters must be recorded in a monitoring concept. In order to be able to monitor Windows clients, they must first be activated via group policies or local settings. This is especially true for file and registry monitoring.

Windows systems distinguish between Windows logs and application and service logs in Event Viewer.

The following events are monitored in the Windows logs:

* Application log: contains events reported by the applications. Which events can be logged is determined by the application developers. This protocol has the name: Application for clients as of Windows 7.
* Security log: contains events classified as security-relevant by Microsoft. By configuring the monitoring policies, an administrator can specify what to log.
* Setup log or Setup log: Contains events that occur during the installation of applications. This protocol is named as follows for clients as of Windows 7: Installation.
* System Log: Contains events that originate from Microsoft Windows system components. This protocol has the name: System for clients as of Windows 7.
* Forwarded events: Only when a client has been explicitly configured to collect events on remote computers (remote clients) will the client see Forwarded Events. These are events of the previously mentioned protocols. The remote clients must also be configured to allow access to their event viewer.


It is reasonable to set up a collection client to centrally control the event logs, similar to a syslog server. This feature can also be used by Microsoft server products or third-party tools such as antivirus software for professional use.

Application and service protocols were introduced with Microsoft Windows Vista. These logs do not store system-wide events, but events that affect individual applications or components.

The following tables provide recommendations for setting the display of events in the Event Viewer. The events generate corresponding messages in the security log.

The headings of the following tables identify the paths in Group Policy Objects (GPOs). These can be configured locally (local XP group policy) or in the Active Directory (see M 2.326 Planning Group Policy for Clients as of Windows XP).



## Examples 
* Assign user rights to the event viewer,
* Settings for the event log part 1,
* Settings for the event log part 2 and
* security options




