#M 4.453 Use of a Security Token Service (STS)
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A Security Token Service (STS) is a web service used to request, renew, and verify identity and entitlement information. The principle is that of a claim-based identity model, whereby a claim means one statement of an entity over another entity or itself, for example via a username or a specific right , A STS can be used to offload the authentication and authorization or, if multiple applications or services use the STS, to realize single sign-on. In principle, a decoupling of services and their callers is made, according to which a service no longer has to trust each individual caller directly with regard to the transmitted identity information, but only one STS. The caller can also be a web service (web service authentication), but also a client application or a browser (passive client), in the latter case the STS occurs as a web application (Web SSO).

Simplification arises because each application or service no longer has to master user authentication, user account and password management, directory service connectivity, and integration with other institution identity and access control systems. Naturally, however, this architectural change has important implications for security issues.

Since theSTS itself also represents a Web service, the measures of the B 5.24 Web service module should also be implemented for it. This measure also includes the following aspects of the use of a STS by another web service, possibly also from another institution.

In practice, there is often already a STS. Using a non-self-powered STS is an outsourcing of authentication functions. Therefore, the specifications of the module B 1.11 Outsourcing and, if necessary, the module B 1.17 Cloud usage must also be taken into account. In the case of an individual agreement with the STS provider, contractual arrangements must be made in such a way that the protection of the data secured by the access control is ensured. Otherwise, the contract terms and conditions of the provider must be checked to see if they meet the protection requirements. Whether or not a particular STS may be used for an application depends on the need for protection of the application and the possibility of further action to possibly enhance the protection of the access control, for example by a two-factor authentication. Here the trust in the offerer is to be justified by clear criteria and the soundness of their observance.

But even if the STS is operated within its own institution, outsourcing the authentication will inherit the need for protection to the STS, which will be accompanied by accumulation effects when multiple applications or services occur as consumers.

It can be assumed that a STS inherits its protection requirements in terms of confidentiality and integrity according to the maximum principle from the data that can be accessed through its use. As far as availability is concerned, this is also the case if the use of the STS is the only effective way of authentication. In addition, accumulation effects should be taken into account if the STS performs authentication for a large number of services or institutions.

In addition, amSTS does not only have to have the information as to which user has which requirements, but also, due to the requests for tokens, data arises as to which user uses which service, how often and in which context. In the case of human users, the privacy is to be considered here (for example, by observing module B 1.5 Data protection); in the case of machine, the confidentiality of the metadata.

The realization of a STS is possible by means of various techniques (for example REST), but in practice they are often implemented by means of SOAP. In general, standards from the WS - * family are used to ensure functionality and interoperability.

The term security token is defined in the standard WS-Security as any data object that contains one or more claims, ie verbal statements about an entity, and that can be added to an SOAP message. Frequently, security tokens are digitally signed in order to prove the informative value cryptographically.

WS-Security supports different types of security tokens, such as the UsernameToken for authentication by username and password. The password is transmitted as a hash value, in the calculation of which a nonce (random value) and a timestamp are incorporated in order to prevent replay attacks. Another intended token type is the BinarySecurityToken for non-XML-based formats such as X.509 certificates. Additional token types are provided via an extension mechanism.

Most STS today use tokens that are described in the Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML). This is a common standard for describing claims. A SAML security token (more precisely, a SAML assertion, which also contains other elements, but which is most needed for Web SSO) is a description of identity information, attributes, authentication, and authentication Authorization decisions inXML, which can be extended for own purposes.

The SAML standard has significantly expanded from version 1.1 to version 2.0 and now includes additional protocols and deployment scenarios (profiles), which are mainly about Web SSO. In any case, a fundamental decision must be made for a set of standards that are well-developed and interoperable in terms of implementation, that are compatible with each other and with the planned communication partners and that meet the respective security requirements.

In the specification WS-Trust, which is based on WS-Security, the STS itself is defined with its actions. When a server requests authentication, the client sends a Request for Security Token (RST), for example, with its user name and password in the form of a UsernameToken, to the STS. It can be specified here which token type is required, which claims are to be contained in the token and how the token to be issued is to be saved. DerSTS returns a Request for Security Token Response (RSTR) containing the security token, which the client can now present to the server. Depending on the scenario, the latter can either check the signature itself or submit it to the STS for verification.

In order for security tokens to be trusted, they should either be verifiable signed, or the transfer must be consistently secured by other means, such as at the transport level. However, as the signature of one of them also serves to confirm the claims in a security token, their lack should be compensated by other measures such as secure authentication during the exchange.

Confidential data, such as passwords, must never be transmitted unsecured to a STS or transmitted to the consumer. Here is always a safe hash method with random component (Salt, for example with Nonce) use. In addition, replay attacks are to be prevented by suitable methods, such as the use of time stamps, if the transport channel does not already reliably prevent them.

If the security token does not take the direct, encrypted path from the STS to the server, its content must also be encrypted to prevent unauthorized third parties from using the token for authentication. For this it is enough to encrypt the cryptographic part, ie the signature of the STS. However, if the assertion contains further confidential data, these too should be protected. In principle, however, the need for confidentiality is to be minimized by the principle of data economy by asking for as many general claims as possible (for example, a user of legal age).

As a further measure of protection, a short-term token lifetime should be used depending on protection needs in order to reduce damage caused by misuse. Most frameworks set standards here, which should be shortened if possible.

Because of the many interoperable standards, including their different versions and levels of standardization, implementations have often been vulnerable in the past, severely compromising or even compromising security. Because the underlying security features are umXML encryption, XML signatures, and often TLS / SSL, attacks also matter, and the more critical authorization decisions made by the STS, the harder they are.

Attacks such as XMLSignature Wrapping, that is, the unwanted change of a message without the signature becoming invalid, are primarily made possible by the fact that the generation and checking of signatures are not coordinated. Either the same software base should be used here or, if this is not possible (for example, external STS, XML gateways), extensive testing of the interfaces should take place after each adaptation. In principle, established, well-tested libraries and frameworks for implementing the STS functionality must be selected, for which information about weak points and security patches must be available and recorded in a timely manner. When safeguarding the communication paths, note M 4.450 Securing communications for web services.

In any case, in the complexity of matter, it is necessary to consult with the expert on the safe use of a STS already during the conception phase.



