#M 4.333 Secure configuration of Winbind under Samba
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If Samba is used in domain or ads security mode (see M 4.328 Secure basic configuration of a Samba server), the more secure configuration of Winbind plays an important role. In this case, a whole series of recommendations have to be taken into account.

By joining a domain, smbd is able to authenticate users to the domain controller (DC). Depending on the security mode and client, this is done by evaluating the Kerberos ticket or by asking the DC. The latter, in particular, is expensive because smbd needs to look for a DC and log in there before it can perform user authentication. This generates at least 30 network packets, of which only two are relevant for the actual authentication.

Windows works differently. The Local Security Authority (LSA) establishes a connection to the DC once at the start of the domain member and authenticates itself as a machine. All user authentications then only pass through this connection. Implementing this concept with smbd alone does not work, as each client has its own smbd process and network connections can not simply be used by multiple processes at the same time.

Therefore winbindd can be used as proxy for the connection to the DC. It has a function comparable to the LSA under Windows. In particular, it keeps a connection to the DC open and offers its services for all processes in the system via a Unix domain socket under / tmp / winbindd / pipe. The smbd processes first try to connect to this socket during an authentication. Only when this fails, the processes themselves initiate a connection to a DC.

In addition to successful authentication, Samba needs more information about a user. It is necessary for each user to have a Windows and a Unix user account on the Samba server. The Unix user account is required, among other things, so that Samba can leave the access control in the file system to the kernel (see also M 4.332 Secure configuration of access control for a Samba server).

That is, each domain user must exist with all group memberships in the Unix operating system. Theoretically, it is possible to manually copy all domain users under Unix. However, this procedure should be avoided and Winbind should be used instead.

Winbind is able to dynamically create appropriate Unix users and groups for Windows users and groups if they do not already exist on Unix. The nss_winbind module is used., It can be integrated with an entry in /etc/nsswitch.conf. For example, this could look like this:

passwd: files winbind group: files winbind

With these settings, the operating system first searches user names in the file / etc / passwd. If there is no suitable user, contact winbindd. For winbindd to be able to dynamically generate all the required Unix user attributes for a user name (for example, user ID, home directory, or login shell), the daemon must perform two steps. First, Winbind asks the DC for the Security Identifier (SID) of the username. Thereafter, since the DC normally does not know the Unix user ID for a user, Winbind must find a matching Unix user ID to the SID itself. Winbind works differently depending on the configured ID mapping backend:

* tdb: This is the default. If a user who does not yet have a Unix user ID logs on, Winbind assigns the user the next free Unix user ID from a predefined area and saves the ID mapping locally in a tdb file , The ID mappings are stored in the winbindd_idmap.tdb file. If this file is lost, all file system permissions are lost. This can lead to serious security gaps. The following example illustrates this: User User1 logs in to the Samba server for the first time with his Windows user name BERLIN / user1. The user BERLIN / user1 has the SID S-1-5-12-7623811015-3361044348-030300820-1013 in the Windows domain. Windbind reserves a free Unix user ID and assigns the Unix user ID 2000 to the SID. This mapping is stored in the winbindd_idmap.tdb file. After a successful login, the user BERLIN / user1 places some files on the Samba server. These are stored under the Unix user ID 2000. After a wrong backup of the winbindd_idmap.tdb file, some of the mappings stored in it are lost. A short time later, user User2 logs on to the Samba server with his Windows username BERLIN / user2. The user BERLIN / user2 has the SID S-1-5-12-7623811015-3361044348-030300820-1017 in the Windows domain. Since the Unix user ID 2000 mapping has been lost due to the loss of data, Winbind maps it to the SID of user2. The user user2 can now access all files that the user user1 originally had under the Unix user ID Therefore a regular backup of the file winbindd_idmap.tdb has to be done. In addition to the explanations and recommendations in M 6.135 Regular backup of important system components of a Samba server, ID mapping can also be secured in the following way. The command net idmap dump results in a plaintext file, which can be restored if necessary with net idmap restore.
* rid: This backend uses the Relative Identifier (RID), the characters after the last hyphen of the Windows SID, to algorithmically calculate the Unix user ID. This database does not require a database because the mapping is deterministic.
* ad: This backend can be used if the extensions for the Services For Unix (SFU) are implemented in the Active Directory and Samba is operated in the ads Security Mode. As part of this extension, the administrator can explicitly assign Unix user IDs in the Active Directory. Winbind only reads the ID mappings on this backend. No additions or changes to ID mappings are made by Winbind. Also, this backend is the only one that Winbind can use to obtain other Unix user attributes (for example, the home directory or the login -Shell a user). For all other backends other mechanisms have to be used, for example the configuration parameters template shell and template homedir in the configuration file smb.conf.
* ldap: This backend stores self-chosen ID mappings in a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) directory.
* nss: This backend does not map using SIDs, but requires the domain controller and domain member to synchronize the / etc / passwd information with other means, such as nss_ldap. If a Winbind system still asks for a mapping, it returns this name-based. In other words, it first converts a SID to its user name and looks up the name in / etc / passwd. This backend replaces the Winbind parameter winbind trusted domains only.


Further Information The different backends for ID mapping can be found in their man pages. These are named according to the schema idmap_ <name of the backend>. Typing man idmap_nss provides more information about the nss backend. Each of the ID mapping backends has individual configuration parameters. For error analysis the program wbinfo should be used.

In addition to the Unix user ID, Winbind typically needs to associate each user with additional Unix user attributes, such as a home directory. This can be controlled via parameters such as template homedir or template shell. As already mentioned, another mechanism is available only for the ID mapping backend ad.

If there is only one Samba server as a domain member and the Unix user IDs do not need to be synchronized across servers, then the ID mapping backend tdb can be used.

If there are multiple Samba servers as domain members and therefore the Unix user IDs must be synchronized across servers, then one of the other ID mapping backends must be used.

If a trust relationship exists between domains in the federation of information, the following recommendation must be implemented in the Trust Relationships Between Domains section.



## Examples 
* Backend rid with idmap domains configuration.
* Backend ldap with idmap domains configuration.
* Backend ad.
* Backend nss.




