#M 4.297 Safe operation of the WLAN components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

WLANs are attractive targets for attackers and must therefore be configured very carefully so that they can be operated safely. All WLAN components must be configured to be as protected as possible against attacks. As long as WLAN components are not configured accordingly, they may not be activated or coupled with the production environment.

The WLAN components to be protected include the access points, the distribution system, the WLAN clients, the operating systems on which the WLAN components are operated, and the protocols used. In particular, the following points should be noted:

* Responsible persons must be named for the administration of the various WLAN components.
* After installation and commissioning of WLAN components, all required security mechanisms must be activated.
* The administration of the WLAN components may only be done via a secure connection, ie. H. The administration should take place at the console directly, after strong authentication (when accessing from the LAN) or via an encrypted connection (when accessing from the Internet).
* It is necessary to realize the rule Everything that is not expressly allowed is forbidden. So z. B. no user who is not registered in an access list, access the WLAN. The allocation of access rights to directories and files should be as restrictive as possible.
* It is important to ensure that the software used is always up to date and any security-related patches are immediately downloaded.
* Configuration changes should be logged by the system so that manipulations can be tracked in a timely manner. The log data itself must be secured in such a way that manipulation of them is ruled out.
* All security-related events should be logged. These include z. B. Attempts of unauthorized access and data on network utilization and congestion. The recorded log data must be evaluated regularly. The scope of logging must be coordinated with the Staff Committee and the Data Protection Officer.
* The WLAN components must be included in the data protection concept. When restoring backed-up data, care must be taken to ensure that files relevant for secure WLAN operation, such as access lists, password files or filter rules, are up-to-date.


As far as possible, a standard configuration should be worked out for the WLAN components used, which reflects the requirements of the WLAN security guideline. This makes it easier for a variety of devices to be supervised the introduction of changes. Likewise, deviations from the target configuration can be detected more quickly.

It makes sense to use a WLAN management solution that ensures efficient configuration of the access points. Access points and the active components of the distribution system should continue to be integrated into the network management system and monitored. Finally, the availability of the authentication server should be checked via the management system. If necessary, the extension of an already used network management system offers a WLAN management module.

The connection of foreign access points or manipulation of the switches of the distribution system should be detected by the WLAN management system. The affected network port of the distribution switch should be immediately locked in such a case.

Similarly, the configuration of the access points and the distribution system should be checked regularly. For this, the currently found system configuration must be checked against a documented and validated configuration. In the case of unconfirmed changes, the systems must be examined and, if necessary, even switched off and checked for an attack.

For the secure operation of the WLAN components, both the basic configuration, which was established on the basis of the WLAN security guideline, and all changes made must be documented carefully in order to make them comprehensible at all times. In addition to the documentation of the safety configurations, the documentation of the firmware statuses of the access points and the documentation of site-specific configurations are also part of the documentation.



