#M 4.263 Securing SAP destinations
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In addition to the server role in which it offers its access functions, an SAP system can also assume the role of a client, accessing functions of other SAP systems. Destinations describe the different target systems and contain all information necessary for access. In general, these are the computer name or the IP address, the protocol to be used and the number of the communication port which describe the network connection to the target system.

For destinations, however, authentication information can also be stored. When accessing the destination, these are then used to log in to the target system. If no authentication information is stored, it must be specified by the calling user. The remote execution then takes place under the privileges of the specified user. In this context, the following terminology is commonly used in the context of destinations that are accessed via RFC (Remote Function Call):

* RFC user: The user who is active in the server system and has certain authorizations.
* RFC service user: An RFC user is called a service user if the credentials (user and password) are stored on the client.


Destinations are kept in a client-independent table, so every user has access to all destinations in the SAP system. Thus, the access to the destinations must be secured. The following recommendations should be considered for destinations:



## Examples 
* ICF_FIELD: Type of the object to be protectedThis field can contain the following values: SERVICE: for the use of ICF servicesDEST: for the use of RFC destinations (as of 6.20)
* ICF_VALUE: Value of the ICF object to be protectedThis field contains the value of the corresponding object. The values ??to be protected are maintained in transaction SICF for ICF services and in transaction SM59 for RFC destinations.




