#M 4.99 Protection against subsequent changes of information
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Files that are shared with third parties can generally be further processed by them. This is not always in the sense of the creator. Therefore, it would be desirable to have protection against any subsequent changes, excerpts or processing.

Often, the problem is that information about the Internet or other networks may be made available to third parties, but not printed a hundred times or seamlessly integrated into other works.

There are various solutions for this, some of which can be combined with each other. Examples of this are:

* The use of digital signatures to prevent unnoticed changes to files (see also M 4.34 Using Encryption, Checksum or Digital Signatures or M 3.23 Introduction to Basic Cryptographic Terms).
* Adding copyright notices to information such as pamphlets or files on web pages. These may be as follows: The work including all its parts is protected by copyright. Any use outside the strict limits of copyright law without the author's consent is inadmissible and punishable. as well as Copyright ( ) 7/2009 by BSI.
* The use of file formats that make subsequent changes or partial further processing more difficult. For this z. B. postscript or the security properties of application programs, such. Eg for PDF files.


Many application programs provide security mechanisms to restrict further handling of the created files. In the following, some such security mechanisms are presented using the example of PDF files. Since the security mechanisms of the different application programs are very different and sometimes even vary from version to version, it is important to inform employees about how to use them and what steps to take before handing over electronic documents , It often makes sense to train one employee (plus a representative) thoroughly. He should then process all documents to be forwarded according to the security requirements or be available as a contact person.



## Examples 
* Frequently, individual passages in a document are to be rendered unrecognizable before being published. A popular, but extremely error-prone method is to electronically blacken text passages. However, the over-painted information is in many cases easily readable. Therefore, this must be avoided (see also G 3.13 passing on false or internal information).




