#M 4.394 Session management in web applications and web services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, developer

Web applications and web services typically use the stateless protocol HTTP to transfer the data. It does not support mappings of related requests to a user, such as individual page views to fill a virtual shopping cart. To identify a user's concurrent requests and assign them to a session, a session ID is assigned (for example, after successful login), which is then transmitted on each page view, or each interaction with the web service. The session ID is typically generated by the web application or the web service itself. If a web service uses the standard WS-SecureConversation, the security context, and thus also the identifier for the session, can also be generated by a dedicated security token service.

If the user has logged into the web application or service, the session ID is comparable to his credentials. The web application identifies the user with each page or service call and assigns it to a (privileged if any) session. If unauthorized users use the session ID, they are identified as legitimate users and can use the application or service on behalf of the victim.

The session management of a web application or a web service has the task of managing the sessions and assigning new session IDs. The following requirements and aspects should be taken into account.



## Examples 
* The session ID must be randomly generated using cryptographic random number generators and should have an entropy of at least 64 bits so that it can not be guessed by a potential attacker. For example, to increase the entropy of the session ID, the length can be increased (for example, 128 bits) and the character space of the session ID (for example, alphanumeric characters and special characters) can be increased. As a guideline, the length of the session ID should be at least twice the number of bits as the number of session ID entropy bits. As a result, the session ID should be at least 128 bits long. Assuming that a character is represented by 8 bits, such a session ID would consist of at least 16 characters (128 bits / 8 = 16 bytes).
* No externally known or guessable data (for example, RFC address, time) should be included in the calculation of the session ID, as long as this does not tolerably reduce entropy.
* If the framework underlying the web application supports the generation of session IDs, then the function of the framework should preferably be used. Functionality of leading frameworks is usually tested and supports the secure generation of session IDs. An error-prone new development should therefore be avoided.
* If a framework is used to manage and create session IDs, ensure that the framework is securely configured so that the above-mentioned session ID requirements are met.




