#M 4.156 Secure configuration of the Novell eDirectory client software
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

After the planning and installation of an eDirectory system (see M 2.236 Planning the Use of Novell eDirectory), the directory system including its client software must be configured on the relevant computers.

Due to the large number of possible applications and services that are considered as client software for eDirectory, the following does not deal in detail with specific configuration options. Among other things, it is also possible to create your own client software that communicates with eDirectory via the standardized LDAP interface.

The following generic notes should be followed in any case:

* To safeguard the respective client installation, the relevant measures of the IT-Grundschutz Manual catalogs for the respective underlying operating system are to be applied.
* If the client software for the eDirectory is to establish an SSL-protected LDAP connection, the client must receive a corresponding root certificate, with which it can check the authenticity of the SSL server certificate.


The administration of eDirectory is done via the program ConsoleOne from a client. The security of eDirectory installation also depends on the integrity of the clients used for administration. Securing these clients is therefore particularly important.

On the one hand, the integrity of the respective operating system platform must be protected for administratively used client software. For this purpose z. B. Access restrictions on system files, unless such limitations are already present in the operating system default. In addition to protecting the underlying operating system platform of the client, protection of the administration software itself is required. By granting suitable access restrictions, the directories in which the ConsoleOne and the corresponding additional software are installed must be protected against manipulation or overwriting.

The Novell Modular Authentication Services (NMAS) add-on module is especially available for the Novell Client for Windows. This allows the configuration of additional authentication methods (eg using smartcard, biometrics, RADIUS protocol) for access to the eDirectory. Combinations of authentication methods can also be used. When using this module, access rights can be configured on the eDirectory side, depending on the authentication method used.



