#M 4.312 Monitoring of directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT manager, auditor

In order to understand the safety status of a system, it is necessary to continuously monitor it. Among other things, the security settings and the log files of a server should be checked regularly. The aim of such monitoring is to detect violations of the applicable safety regulations, to detect existing security gaps or to detect misconfigurations that can lead to security gaps. A corresponding monitoring concept is also to be regarded as part of the security concept.

As a rule, complex systems such as directory services can no longer be monitored by individual administrators, but the control must be carried out automatically by appropriate system components or products from third-party manufacturers. The configuration of the system monitoring must be regularly adapted to the changing system.

For system monitoring of a directory service suitable tools should be used. If it is a client-server connection, appropriate authentication mechanisms must be available to access the tools. The accessing party may only access the data after successful authentication, with the rights configured for it. Access to all administration tools should be prevented for normal users. In principle, these accesses should only be operated with sufficient encryption of the communication connection.

Depending on the directory service and the tools available, all directory service events can be stored in a separate log file. This makes it easier to identify and evaluate the events, such as when the directory service events are stored in the operating system's global log file.

As part of the monitoring, the following aspects should be considered:

* The data protection officer and the personnel or works council should be involved in the planning at an early stage, since in a system monitoring usually also personal data are recorded.
* In addition to the directory service-specific events, events of the operating system must also be monitored and logged in order to obtain a more complete picture of the system processes. Recommendations and notes on logging at operating system level can be found in the respective blocks.
* A central collection point for log files with correspondingly automated evaluation can be set up by products from third-party manufacturers. If a tool for network and system management is used (see module B 4.2 Network and system management), the directory service protocols can be integrated directly into this tool, depending on the product.
* Due to the monitoring, large amounts of data accumulate depending on the setting. These must not only be evaluated regularly, but also deleted for space reasons or outsourced to other data carriers. In addition, intensive monitoring can lead to performance losses. As a result, a server may be overloaded in such a way that controlled operation is no longer possible. For this reason, the appropriate monitoring parameters must be checked during a test operation and adjusted if necessary. Adjustments may also affect the overall monitoring concept, as certain monitoring tasks may no longer be feasible. This is especially true if additional products are used which place high requirements on the logged events. Examples include programs that automatically analyze log data for behavioral anomalies, such as attack detection.


As part of the monitoring of the system functions, it is also advisable to regularly check directory service replication, which will forward configuration changes. Errors in replication usually mean that configuration changes are not carried out everywhere and so, for example. too many rights are granted to a user.



