#M 4.364 Regulations for the separation of Bluetooth devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

When Bluetooth devices are taken out of service, all sensitive information must be erased. In particular, the authentication information for access to Bluetooth networks and other accessible resources that are stored in the security infrastructure and other systems must be removed or declared invalid. This means, for example, that cryptographic keys must be deleted securely and certificates for digital signatures must be blocked.

As Bluetooth devices, a variety of different devices use. These include:

* laptops
* PDAs, smartphones and similar devices with Bluetooth support
* Bluetooth-enabled phones, printers and cameras
* Bluetooth capable peripherals such as headsets, mice, keyboards, etc.


The Bluetooth functionality is typically one of several other features of these devices. When decommissioning these devices, it must therefore be considered whether such devices contain safety-critical Bluetooth information which must be deleted, transmitted or archived, eg. B .:

* Information about the owner of the terminal
* Certificates or associated private keys (for users or devices)
* Information about connected devices (pairing information)
* Key material of authentication methods such as eg. Key to pairing between Bluetooth devices


Depending on the device and storage, suitable procedures for the destruction, erasure or reuse of the security-relevant information are to be used for this purpose. For example, for certificates, an entry must be made in the appropriate certificate revocation lists (CRLs) to revoke the certificate.

If a Bluetooth device is stolen, at least all of the above information must be taken into account, and it must be ensured that these devices no longer have access to existing Bluetooth devices or network structures to have. This is best achieved by deleting the pairing information about the stolen devices on the remaining devices.



