#M 4.282 Secure configuration of the IIS Basic component on Windows Server 2003
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Internet Information Services (IIS) 6.0 is an important component of Windows Server 2003, without which many important functions of the operating system are not available or only limited. Since version 5, the IIS have been extended by new technologies, modularized and for the most part outsourced from the kernel. This new system design makes the IIS more robust and the operating system less susceptible. IIS is integrated with Windows Server 2003 in the context of an application server for Web-based applications. Accordingly, the component in Windows Server 2003 is named Application Server. The IIS is a subcomponent of the application server. The Application Server component is completely disabled after a default installation of the operating system.

The recommendations described below are no closer to the secure installation of an application server or intranet / Internet server (see B 5.10 Internet Information Server). Instead, they should be used whenever another Windows Server 2003 component or application requests the installation of IIS as a helper service. This action highlights the items that must be considered in a secure configuration of the IIS Basic component. Specific settings for the notes listed here can be found under the IT Baseline Protection Tools (see Securing the IIS Basic Component in Windows Server 2003 in Windows Server 2003 Tools).



## Examples 
* C: / inetpub / ftproot (ftp server)
* C: / inetpub / mailroot (SMTP server)
* C: / inetpub / nntpfile (NNTP server)




