#M 4.311 Secure operation of directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The safety of a complex system must be permanently maintained during operation, since necessary changes occur during operation. It is therefore not sufficient to set a secure initial configuration (see M 4.308 Secure installation of directory services and M 4.307 Secure configuration of directory services).

After installation and initial configuration in accordance with pre-determined directory service concepts and security policies, the operation of directory service servers is typically networked. The security of such a network depends on the one hand on the one hand initially set configuration. However, it is also largely determined by the type of configuration changes that must be made during operation. In particular, side effects that may inadvertently lead to security gaps must also be taken into account.

The following aspects must be considered during operation for a directory service system from the point of view of information security:

* An important aspect of the system security of a directory service system is the consistent management of users and permissions. The administrative concept has an impact on the complexity of the tasks to be performed. Since complex processes can easily lead to errors, the administrative tasks should be as simple as possible. A group-based access concept helps to maintain a secure system state. Managing access to databases is much easier and less error prone. In particular, it must be ensured that access to all administration tools is prevented for normal users.
* Changes in a directory system are particularly likely when foreign LDAP directories are imported into an existing directory service tree. These newly imported directories are usually not yet integrated into the existing security structures. To ensure that the defined security policy continues to be implemented consistently, the configuration of the security settings must be made up immediately. Permissions to import new directories and create directory replications must be granted restrictively.
* Cryptographic certificates can play a significant role in the access control mechanisms of the directory service. If a certification authority is installed on a directory service server, a separate key pair can be automatically generated for each new object and stored in the directory service. The secure operation of this directory service server in the tree is therefore particularly important. It is not only the data that is on it that should be protected, but above all its availability, for example through appropriate replication.
* In terms of antivirus protection, a directory service requires special strategies to prevent replication from registering due to virus scanner access, resulting in unnecessary data transfer. In the worst case, the data in the directory can become inconsistent and ultimately render the directory service unusable.
* The security of an IT system is always based on physical security in the environment of the servers and network components. Therefore, a directory service server must be set up in a secure environment. B. the building block B 2.4 server room.
* In order to understand the safety status of a system, it is necessary to monitor it. The security settings and log files of a server should be checked on a regular basis. The purpose of such monitoring is to detect violations of applicable security regulations, detect existing security gaps or detect misconfigurations that could potentially lead to security vulnerabilities. A corresponding monitoring concept is also to be regarded as part of the security concept. As a rule, complex systems such as directory services can no longer be monitored by individual administrators, but the monitoring must be carried out automatically by appropriate system components or products from third-party manufacturers. The configuration of the system monitoring must be regularly adapted to the changing system. Checking log files and security settings can be done manually or with tool support. The recommendations for monitoring are summarized in M 4.312 Monitoring of directory services.


From a security point of view, it is also important to document all policies, regulations and processes concerning the operation of a directory service system. Operating manuals should be created and updated when system changes occur. Since the operating manuals contain safety-related information, they must be stored in such a way that unauthorized persons can not gain access to them. However, authorized administrators should be able to easily see the manuals.

The listed recommendations can only be of a general character at this point, since the maintenance of system security also depends on local conditions. For this reason, appropriate guidelines for safe operation must be drawn up in the planning phase of a directory tree, which take account of local requirements. Under certain circumstances it can also happen that certain mechanisms can not be optimally configured safely. This is z. B. This is the case when old applications that are only designed for weak or no authentication must continue to be operated. Here must then by alternative countermeasures elsewhere, z. B. At the organizational level, adequate security can be achieved.

Potential security vulnerabilities can only be discovered or avoided by competent administrators. Therefore, the training and education of system administrators is an important protective measure (see also M 3.62 Training on the administration of directory services).

In addition, the normal users must also be trained in security aspects (see also M 3.63 Training users in authentication using directory services) so that potential dangers are known and the available security mechanisms can be used correctly.



