#M 4.472 Data economy with Windows 8
Responsible for Initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

The newly introduced functions of Windows 8 sometimes provide extensive access to system or user data. Examples include the direct storage of data in the cloud by apps and the Windows 8 enhanced security feature SmartScreen (see G 2.203 Integrated Cloud Functionality).

The information required by the operating system or applications and apps is often collected automatically during use without users being aware of it. In addition, it is often not possible for users to determine the scope and synchronization intervals of data to be transmitted.

In order to ensure adequate confidentiality and data protection requirements, it should therefore be checked in advance of the deployment whether the functions used by Windows 8 and the applications and apps used comply with legal and organizational requirements.

Some examples of such applications or system functions whose privacy is to be verified are shown below.

System logon with a Microsoft account

In addition to the classic login to a system via a local or Active Directory-based account, Windows 8 also allows logging on to the system via a so-called Microsoft account. In this variant, Windows logs on the user automatically when using apps and related websites.

Such an account is required to install apps and access the Microsoft Windows Store. Setting up an account, however, does not necessarily require logging on to Windows using the Microsoft account procedure. In the business environment, you should therefore not log in using the Microsoft account.

If a Microsoft account must be created in order to use certain apps, the data deposited with Microsoft should be limited to the minimum necessary to the user.

SmartScreen

To secure the Internet Explorer, Microsoft has developed the SmartScreen Filter, which blocks Web pages accessed if they are known as a platform for phishing attacks or distributors of malicious software. This feature has been enhanced in Windows 8. In addition to the monitoring of Internet Explorer, the filter now also warns when executing programs that support the display of web content on the operating system (eg Apps or presentation of HTML content in Office / Outlook), or from an external drive. A prerequisite for the use of the filter, however, is an existing Internet connection, since essential information on programs and possible malicious code is kept in central databases. As a result, the Smartscreen always uses up-to-date information about websites recognized as harmful.

However, this feature also means that significant information about the IT system used is transmitted to centralized services and at least temporarily stored on Microsoft's servers. Examples include name and version as well as cryptographic checksums (hashes) of programs executed on the PC as well as the IP address of the source system.

The SmartScreen function can be found under Control Panel | System and Security | Maintenance Center | Change windows smartscreen settings completely disabled. This should be done if the protection of the resulting usage data from misuse outweighs the risk of infection during web access.

Apps and (in) conscious cloud usage

When a Microsoft account is created, it will automatically be allocated free storage space in the cloud.

The underlying Microsoft cloud was called SkyDrive by February 2014 and was then renamed OneDrive.

When logging in through the Microsoft account, at least the following data is stored in OneDrive:

* Photos taken with the PC
* Documents (OneDrive is selected as the default location when saving),
* Backup copies of the PC settings.


If the logon to the PC does not take place via the Microsoft account, the synchronization can only be done via the so-called OneDrive app, but this has been an integral part of the system since Windows 8.1.

In addition, various apps also store data in cloud services. In some cases, it is not possible to influence the extent or duration of storage.

Home-calling of apps

The installation of apps carries the danger of the so-called home-phone call function (English phone home). This means that apps will automatically contact the manufacturer's servers. In general, this is a desired and elementary function of an app, z. B. by downloading and displaying current news. However, it is often not possible to make a precise statement about the nature and extent of the data transmitted to the provider.

In addition to the risk of unwanted data connections and the associated costs, there is the possibility that apps access personal data of the system and transmit this information to the manufacturer.

Testing applications and apps

Therefore, before an application or app is released for use within the institution, a careful check should be made of it:

* which data is transmitted to external cloud providers,
* how data is synchronized by the manufacturer of the app, and what data is transmitted to the manufacturer.


In particular, these aspects should be taken into account when selecting alternative applications or apps for a purpose. The use of apps with unwanted or unnecessarily extensive data transfer to third parties should be avoided as far as possible.



