#M 4.10 Protection of the TK terminals
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, TK-Anlagenverantwortlicher

Responsible for implementation: user, IT security officer

PBX systems offer a variety of features and interfaces to the terminals. Depending on the PBX, these features or interfaces may occur in different expressions or under different names. Certain features must be enabled in the PBX itself, others are set on the appropriate terminals.

In addition to the PBXs, the terminals can also have additional interfaces to the telephony cabling in addition to the connection possibility. These include Bluetooth to use wireless headsets, or WLAN to connect a wireless VoIP phone to the LAN and indirectly to the PBX. Unused interfaces and unused features must be deactivated. If the interfaces are used, they must be secured against unauthorized access by means of upstream authentication.

The scope of the available performance features should be limited to the necessary minimum and in principle only the required performance features should be released. This prevents the system from being unnecessarily exposed to possible attacks due to its features. Certain features may be misused for targeted attacks, in particular for confidentiality or availability. Also in the course of such abuse by the owner of the plant unwanted fees may arise.

Features with abuse potential on terminals are, for example:

* the direct answer or the automatic call acceptance, because with this function the hands-free functionality of the telephone can be abused to the listening of the space,
* the access to the office of easily accessible apparatus, since unauthorized persons have the opportunity to hold discussions at the expense of the institution,
* the call forwarding, since for example by accidental or malicious misuse of the users of a telephone line is not available,
* the intrusion by which a caller can listen to an existing call,
* the dial-in conference call, as the participants themselves can dial into the conference call without it being noticed by other participants and thus able to listen to unauthorized persons and
* various features intended for export (eg witness switching or wiretapping) as they can be used to attack confidentiality.


The terminals should be configured within their default capabilities to be alerted when safety-critical features are used. The features that are not required or that are deemed critical due to their potential for misuse must be disconnected from the central system as far as possible. If these offer only limited or insufficiently differentiated possibilities, then the central settings can be combined with corresponding blocking settings on the terminals.

Additional protective measures should be taken for the confidential data stored and retrievable on the terminals, such as contact information or institution-wide telephone books. This is especially true for terminals in unprotected areas such as meeting rooms or underground garages. In some cases, however, it is also possible to assign authorizations for the corresponding terminal connections via the PBX itself.

To prevent, for example, unauthorized configuration changes being made to freely accessible terminals, these should be protected with passwords or PINs.

Many terminals are already factory-equipped with standard passwords or PINs. These default passwords should be changed at initial start-up. In general, features such as call forwarding, picking up calls or the like should only be used after entering the authentication information on the device. In order to prevent misuse of the functions of the terminals, the possibility of password protection can be used.

Since the users themselves are responsible for this configuration of the terminals, it is important to sensitize and train them (see M 3.82 Training for the secure use of PBX systems).



