#M 4.393 Comprehensive input and output validation for web applications and web services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, developer

All data submitted to a web application or service, regardless of the encoding or form of the communication, must be considered as potentially dangerous and filtered accordingly. Reliable and thorough filtering of input and output data using a validation component can effectively protect against common attacks. Here, both the input data of users to the Web application and the output data of the Web application to the clients or to downstream systems such as databases should be filtered and transformed (output encoding). The same applies to the call parameters and return values ??of Web services. This ensures that only expected and no corrupted data is processed or output.

If it is necessary for individual functions to set the data filter to be less restrictive, this must be explicitly defined and documented when accessing the data. In addition, it is possible to use context-sensitive filters in the business logic of the application or in the background systems.

For a secure processing of the data, the following points should be taken into account during the implementation and configuration of the validation component:



## Examples 
* Names of form variables (they can be arbitrarily manipulated as well as the value of the form variable),
* HTTP header fields (header fields in HTTP requests and responses should contain only ASCII characters and, for example, no line feed characters like / r / n),
* Session IDs (for example, cookies).




