#M 4.266 Secure configuration of the SAP Java stack
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Java stack of an SAP system makes it possible to use Java-based technologies. These are mainly used in web-based scenarios. In contrast to the ABAP stack, the Java stack is relatively new and its functions are less frequently used. The new Java-based technologies, however, complement the ABAP world, so the importance of the Java stack will continue to increase in the future. Although many business-relevant functions will continue to run in the ABAP stack, the front-end components will be implemented in Java. The Java stack is formed by an application server that implements the J2EE (Java 2 Enterprise Edition) specification.

Since the Java and ABAP stacks are integrated in the NetWeaver ApplicationServer and can communicate with each other via the JavaConnector (JCo), an installed Java stack must be secured. However, completely different security mechanisms and concepts are used in comparison to the ABAP stack.

In the following, the most important steps from the security point of view are shown, which are to be carried out during the initial configuration of the Java stack. The presentation is limited to the configuration of the application server and thus does not apply to other installed applications.



## Examples 
* The service is determined for the chat, which offers the technology for executing the required application (eg servlet_jsp service for servlet-based applications).
* Then the dependencies of the service must be determined. It has to be clarified which other services have to be activated in order for the observed service to be executed. This can be seen from the Dependencies tab in the service properties. As a rule, only services with a high degree of dependency ratio are needed.
* For the services found, the same procedure must be followed until the list of services no longer expands.
* The services that do not appear in the list can be deactivated. It should be noted that certain services are required for the operation of the Java stack.
* Unnecessary applications can be stopped or uninstalled. This is done via the deploy service.
* Unnecessary application aliases managed through the http service can be disabled.
* After services or applications have been deactivated, check whether the required services or applications are still operational.
* If the application or the Java stack is no longer executable, the Java stack logs should be analyzed. Typically, there are error messages that indicate the service you need but disabled. Otherwise, the required combination can only be found through experiments.
* For system services, the start behavior must always be changed via the XML configuration file runtime.xml in the operating system in the respective service directory or the GUI-based configuration tool (value: never or manual).




