#M 4.375 Use the Sandbox feature on Mac OS X
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Mac OS X operating system has a sandbox feature. A sandbox feature allows you to run a process in its own confined environment, where it is completely shielded from the rest of the IT system. It is thus possible, for example, to deprive the application locked in a sandbox of network or file access in order to minimize the extent of damage that can be caused by a malfunction of the process. The sandbox function is a further limitation and does not set any lower limits, such as access control lists, out of force. Thus, a sandbox can not do anything limited by other techniques, but it is a very delicate way to test the effects of programs and deliberately limit their impact.

It is recommended to test new programs or services that participate in network communication before they are used in a productive sandbox. When a new child process is started in the sandbox, it inherits the restrictions of the sandbox. For example, if Safari is running in a sandbox, and the browser downloads and automatically opens a malware-prone PDF file, the sandbox's restricted rights to execute the PDF file become limited Accepted and the possible extent of damage significantly limited.

If users can only use the browser in a sandbox, this will also prevent the installation of unreleased plug-ins because the browser will return to its original state after each reboot. Which applications are to be executed within a sandbox must be defined and configured by the administrator.

The following command starts Safari in a sandbox without file permissions:

sandbox-exec -p (version 1) (allow default) (deny file-write *) / Applications / Safari.app / Content / MacOS / Safari

If the command is supplemented by the parameter (debug all), all actions in the Console.app can be viewed.

Furthermore, it is possible to create a sandbox profile in order to outsource all configuration parameters to it. In the / usr / share / sandbox directory, there are several profile preferences for a sandbox that have been defined for specific system services. If a corresponding profile exists and is adapted to the local guidelines, the command to call an application can look like this:

sandbox-exec -f /usr/share/sandbox/safari.sb /Applications/Safari.app/Contents/MacOS/Safari



