#M 4.428 Audit the Lotus Notes / Domino environment
Responsible for initiation: Data Protection Officer, IT Security Officer, IT Director

Responsible for implementation: Data Protection Officer, Administrator, Specialist, IT Security Officer, Auditor

To determine if the actual status of the Lotus Notes / Domino security environment meets the requirements and to identify any vulnerabilities, it is necessary to periodically perform audits and security checks of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment ,

A distinction is made between internally initiated and externally initiated audits and security audits. The former are usually initiated and processed as part of the information security management process or as part of auditing activities, while the latter are often part of external audits, such as auditing. Eg by supervisory authorities, auditors or licensors (see the measure M 2.493 License Management and Licensing Aspects in the Procurement for Lotus Notes / Domino).

External audits are usually aimed at verifying compliance with legal and regulatory requirements or contractual arrangements. They may also be a prerequisite for participation in electronic data interchange, payment procedures, trading systems, granting special terms or to conclude IT related insurances.

The special status of data protection often justifies privacy-related focus audits. These can also include a privacy audit of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment, since Lotus Notes / Domino often processes and stores personal data.

Audits should be planned as far as possible with an appropriate lead time. Legal aspects of the audits must be clarified and evaluated in advance. Consultation with the Data Protection Officer and the Staff Committee may be required for certain audits.

Audits (especially external ones) are fundamentally to be accompanied by information security management. The scope and content of this support must be defined and documented in advance within the information security management (for example, for the accompaniment of licensing audits, certification audits and audits in the context of tests by the responsible examination bodies).

It is important to ensure that the results of audits are used to optimize the information security management process. Weaknesses identified by the audit and the associated IT risks must be immediately reported to those responsible (the institution's management, the head of IT, the IT security officer, the responsible person in charge).

Audits must be transparent and traceable. Audits and security reviews, the implementation of which may involve risks to the IT operation or the information assets of the institution, such as: B.Penetration tests must be planned and carried out taking into account the legal situation and the prior risk assessment.

Audits of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment can take a holistic approach or selectively test particularly security-sensitive areas. The holistic approach can For example, based on the business processes supported by Notes / Domino, assess security management around Lotus Notes / Domino at the process level and at the technical level. Selective audits can examine in detail configurations and procedures in the environment of particularly security-sensitive components or services (eg the certificate management or the configuration of the Lotus Notes / Domino security mechanisms).



