#M 4.495 Secure system design in software development
Responsible for initiation: Head of Development

Responsible for implementation: Developer, Head of Development

When designing IT systems, check all available security mechanisms and assess whether they meet the security requirements resulting from the protection requirements of the intended deployment environment. The security mechanisms must then be implemented accordingly so that all security requirements are met and implemented.

Every threat should be addressed with appropriate security measures. In particular, the following basic rules must be observed in the safe system design:

* Input data must always be checked and validated before further processing. Input data classified as invalid should be discarded and no longer be used.
* For client-server applications, the data should always be validated on the server. Client validation adds convenience to users, but provides no security and is therefore server-side replication.
* Between system components, data should generally be encrypted. Exceptions are to be justified.
* For the software and the IT system on which the software is executed, a secure standard configuration must be provided. In particular, safe basic settings of the operating system and the modules and applications used by the software must be carried out.
* In the event of errors or failure of components of the system, no information (eg version numbers or file paths) may be disclosed.
* The operation of the software must be possible with as few user privileges as possible.


The system design must be documented and the full coverage of the security requirements must be checked. The safety requirements must be implementable in the productive operation of the software and must therefore also cover the local environmental conditions (eg the operating system used).



