#M 4.309 Setting up access permissions to directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A directory service typically stores a lot of valuable information about an institution, such as user data. It is therefore imperative to make this information available only to authorized applications, users and administrators. For this purpose, it is necessary to consistently and consistently implement a previously created security policy that must contain rules for access authorizations (see M 2.405 Creation of a security policy for the use of directory services).

The rights are usually assigned via access control lists (ACLs). Access authorizations can be assigned both at the object and at the attribute level. Rights can only be granted in a positive way via ACLs, ie. the access is explicitly allowed. An explicit exclusion of a user by means of an access list can not be defined.

Access permissions are explicitly assigned by assignment to the rights holder. For a target object it is entered which other objects can access it. Conversely, this also indicates which target objects an object is allowed to access.

Access permissions are inherited according to the tree hierarchy of the directory service. However, this initially only applies to the object rights, the attribute rights inherit only if this is explicitly configured. The automatic inheritance of access permissions of objects to their child objects can be regulated by the configuration of so-called masks or filters. Since own attribute values ??can be changed via the self-right, it is critical from a security point of view and should also be checked with the help of a filter.

When the directory tree is partitioned, there is initially a gap in the inheritance chain, which, however, is automatically closed by appending an inherent ACL.

Effective in an attempt to access the so-called effective rights, d.h. those access authorizations that result according to the already mentioned mechanisms for assigning rights as the final result. These effective rights are dynamically computed or held in the server's cache each time they are accessed. Administrators should have the ability via a management console to view these current effective rights to individual objects and should monitor them on a random basis.

An important aspect of rights management in the directory service is the configuration of user and group accounts. By properly defining the user and administrator groups, the assignment of rights can be made more transparent and easier.

This is to be recommended, since generally a high complexity in the administration increases the danger by misconfiguration. For a simplified and consistent configuration of users and user groups, templates should be used.

Directory services allow role- and role-based administration. If these administrative roles are not already defined, this requires a schema extension of the directory service. Administrative tasks can be delegated so that they can be performed by members of an assigned user group (Administrators group). In this way the delegation of administration tasks is realized.

If two or more directory service trees are merged into a single tree, the resulting effective rights must then be checked. This also has to be considered when moving partitions within a directory service tree. Likewise, the access permissions must be controlled and possibly reconfigured if z. B. a Windows domain was migrated to an eDirectory tree through migration.



