#M 4.79 Secure access mechanisms for local administration
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

With many active network components, the administration of the components can take place via local access. Such a local access is mostly realized via a serial connection. For a secure local access the following measures have to be considered:

* The active network components and their peripheral devices, such as Eg connected terminals must be set up safely (see M 1.29 Appropriate installation of an IT system),
* the local access for the administration of the local components must be blocked by software and / or mechanically,
* Any existing standard password for local access must be changed immediately after commissioning (for the selection of the new password, see M 2.11 Control of password usage),
* the security properties of permanently connected terminals or computers, such. Automatic screen lock or auto-logout are to be activated.
* Each authorized administrator should have their own user ID.


A local administration offers the following advantages:

* The risk of listening to passwords is reduced.
* Even in the event of a failure of the network segment in which the active component is located or in the event of a failure of the entire network, administration is still possible.


However, local administration also has the following disadvantages:

* Active network components can generally be configured so that local or central administration of the active network components is possible. However, no general recommendation can be given for the selection of the configuration method. However, it must be taken into consideration that in the case of configuration for exclusively local administration, central administration of the active network components is no longer possible. This must then always be done on site directly to the corresponding components. In this case, the reaction time also increases in the event of a breakdown, since longer distances may be necessary to the location of the component.
* Local access is generally slower than remote access through the network via a serial interface.




