#M 4.370 Use of Anoubis under Unix
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Attacks on IT systems are often based on the abuse of access rights. The more generous such rights are, the easier the successful attacks. In the worst case z. B. an error in the browser or an imprudent setting in its configuration allow an attacker full access to all the data of a user.

Since a browser is usually executed with the rights of the user, the access to data and directories to which he has write access is not further limited. This is the basic problem: The rights assignment under Unix is ??often user-based, ie. it assigns users individual access rights. A process executed with the rights of a user owns all its rights. As a result, an executed application has much more rights than it needs for its original purpose. A user usually has virtually no control over the access rights of the applications he executes. In the case of errors in applications, the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the user data are directly threatened.

Anoubis is a free software to control applications and enforce data integrity requirements for Unix systems. For this purpose, applications and files as well as associated test sums are calculated and digitally signed. The administration and verification of the deposited checksums should be carried out using the graphical user interface of Anoubis.



## Examples 
* For office work, the profile on the laptop does not need to be particularly stringent if the local network is protected by security gateways and the user can use the internal services without much restriction should. Access to all possible internal and selected external services is often allowed in this case. If selected network services have to be deployed on the client, for example to configure the laptop, the profile could be set so that only in this secure environment can other IT systems access the laptop.
* At home There is often no external security gateway that could protect the laptop. Therefore, a profile could prohibit access from outside and only allow certain applications to connect to the Internet. For example, a profile might allow only the browser to open HTTP connections, connect the VPN client to the internal network, and allow the virus scanner to pull updates.
* Foreign netWill users in public environments, such as. working at an airport via a WLAN, the profile used must be very restrictive. Only the browser should be able to connect to the Internet via HTTP, the e-mail client only via encrypted channels (POP3s and IMAPs) to the mail hoster, and the VPN tunnel should only be to the remote site be built in the company. All other connections should be blocked.




