#M 4.483 Use of cryptographic processors or coprocessors (Trusted Platform Module) in embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: developer, procurer, planner

In embedded systems, an additional microcontroller can be used to handle cryptographic algorithms and protocols, e.g. To accelerate hash functions and signature verification. This communicates with the system microcontroller about the validity of the firmware authentication.

From a high protection requirement of the confidentiality or the Integrit t this communication against hardware attacks is to make resistant, by:

* the printed conductors run on the inner layers of the printed circuit board,
* dynamic signals (pulses) can be used to signal a successful boot to the main microcontroller and
* if possible several pins with different dynamic signals are used.


The principle of trusted computing is defined by the Trusted Computing Group (TCG) through a set of anchors for trust in a system. Important anchors associated with embedded systems include Root of Trust for Measurement (RTM), Root of Trust for Storage (RTS), and Root of Trust for Reporting (RTR). The role of RTM is to serve as an anchor for surveying the configuration of a platform. It is still initialized before the operating system is started. When the RTM starts, it measures the configuration of the hardware platform while it is being initialized, as well as the first software component started. After that she is finished and does not perform any further actions. Thus, all changes to the platform or the software component started first, such as the bootloader, can be detected. Changes to subsequently started software components, such as the operating system or applications, are thus not recognized. The mechanism for this purpose requires each software component to measure the next software component to launch and determine the correctness. This creates a so-called Trusted Chain of Measurement. The RTM represents the beginning of the chain. The measured values ??are reduced to hash values ??by means of cryptographic functions and stored as reference values ??in secured memory areas. The purpose of the Root of Trust for Storage is to securely store data and accurately reflect the Root of Trust for Reporting information that is relevant to security.

Embedded systems are indeed specialized devices, but in contrast to pure hardware implementation (ASIC) universal computers. For this reason, it is also useful for embedded systems to check the device configuration, software and data to see if they have been changed. Information in high-integrity systems should be authenticated by the cryptographic processors or trusted platform modules used by the processing system. For embedded systems with communication features, it should be possible to securely identify devices and communicate with them in a trustworthy manner. In addition, reliable status information about a device should be obtained. In particular, it must not be possible for one device to duplicate the identity of another device or for one device to provide status information of another device instead of itself.

Trust anchors and checks based on them can usually be implemented more simply in embedded systems than in a standard computer, for example if firmware is used together with the read-only file system squashfs and the configuration and state are stored separately from the software. An RTM can then measure the complete firmware before it is started, and no complex chain of trust needs to be built. Operating systems do not have to be adapted and the runtime behavior does not change. Also, it is not necessary to measure each software component individually. The entire firmware image can be measured and compared against a reference value.



