#M 4.308 Secure installation of directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Once all the framework conditions for using a directory service have been planned (see M 2.403 Planning the Use of Directory Services), the directory service components must be installed on the relevant servers and clients. During the installation phase, a directory service server is not fully configured, so the desired security settings are not yet activated. It is therefore advisable to carry out the initial configuration either in a protected environment or alternatively to play a prepared standard configuration. However, the delivered default configuration of the manufacturer within a productive network should never be put into operation, as they do not offer adequate operational safety.

The same applies if the directory service needs to be updated or reinstalled due to a migration (see M 2.408 Scheduling migration of directory services).

When installing a directory service server into an existing directory tree, its exact context must be specified. A later shift of the server within the tree can only be accomplished with greater effort.

During the installation, the local security settings are also configured for the first time. The most important basic settings relate to

* the definition of the directory service tree,
* the directory service access permissions,
* the directory service inheritance settings and
* the security settings for LDAP access.


During installation, some of these settings can be specified, but a part is initially initialized with default values. It may be necessary to perform some settings without encrypted access before using SSL protected LDAP access. Depending on which directory service modules are used, a secure installation configuration must be set up for each module to prevent access while the server is in the initial configuration phase and until the specified security policies have been implemented. Further recommendations can be found in M 4.307 Secure Configuration of Directory Services.

In general, the following must be observed during the installation from a security perspective:

* Directory service object privileges on systems upgraded from previous versions or adopted by other directory systems must be updated.
* Upgrade mechanisms can change the default settings, such as: By including another directory service in an existing directory service structure.
* If a new server is to be included in an existing directory service tree, the implicit inheritance mechanism allows the initial configuration to be significantly reduced. In this case, it must be critically examined whether unwanted settings have been made by the inheritance mechanism that lead to safety leaks.
* The installation of the directory service servers requires special care, as they store valuable data in later operation.


Directory service servers may only be installed and operated on servers that are in a physically secure environment, such as. a server room or a server cabinet. This is especially true for directory service servers on which particularly valuable data is stored.



