#M 4.429 Secure configuration of Lotus Notes / Domino
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Immediately after installation, customization or migration, configure the installed or migrated components. This is the only way to ensure that no vulnerabilities in the standard configuration for attacks are used during the time between installation and configuration.



## Examples 
* By default, deny anonymous access to Domino servers. If no xACLs are used (in this case, anonymous access is prevented when setting up the xACLs), the Domino installation must set the ANONYMOUS group to NO ACCESS by default. Access by Lotus Notes users whose certificates have been issued by unknown CAs and do not have a cross-certificate will be treated as anonymous by Domino. If anonymous accesses are to be allowed for individual databases, this must be explicitly enabled at the database level. If anonymous access to dedicated servers is desired, they must be planned accordingly in the overall architecture and secured via other security measures. In particular, these servers should not provide services with high protection requirements.
* For the hash values ??of the HTTP passwords, the safer hash format with salt value must be selected (available since Notes 4.6). This is done via Actions -> Edit Directory Profiles and selecting Yes with the Use more secure Internet password format checkbox. See also the technote 1244808 of the manufacturer.




