#M 4.226 Integration of virus scanners in a security gateway
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Malware such as viruses, worms and Trojan horses (collectively referred to as viruses in the following) can be centrally located on the security gateway and distributed on workstation PCs and servers (ie the end systems of communication relationships) Beyond the security gateway).

Centralized filtering on the security gateway can not completely replace distributed antivirus protection because malicious software may also access the systems in other ways (such as removable media).

Central filtering is currently only possible when using an application-level gateway.



## Examples 
* The computer with the anti-virus program must be configured particularly securely, for example, by a particularly restrictive configuration of the operating system (H rten). The security requirements are (at least) the same as for the other components of the security gateway.
* The computer must be separated as much as possible from the rest of the network by appropriate packet filter rules. In particular, this machine should not allow any outgoing connections, either internal or external, from the packet filters. In the ideal case, the computer can communicate directly with the ALG, via which it receives the data stream to be tested and to which it returns the filtered data. In addition, only connections from a separate administration network to the computer are allowed.
* The regular integrity check of the system should be done at short intervals.
* Possibly, the computer should be equipped with a host-based intrusion detection system, so that a possible compromise can be detected as soon as possible.
* The administration of the computer must be done via a secure connection.




