#M 4.13 Careful assignment of IDs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In Unix systems, user and group identifiers of processes and files are used to identify the cause of actions and assign rights. Therefore, a careful assignment of these identifiers is required.

Each login name, user ID (UID) and group ID (GID) may only occur once. Even after deleting a user or a group, the login name and UID or GID should not be reassigned for a specific time. In networked systems, it must be ensured across systems that user names and IDs are not assigned multiple times. This is particularly important when using NFS because of the implementation of the UIDs, so that no data can be read without authorization.

Each user must be a member of at least one group. Each GID found in the / etc / passwd file must be defined in the / etc / group file.

Each group should only contain the users that are absolutely necessary. This is especially important for the system groups (such as root, sys, bin, adm, news, uucp, nuucp or daemon).

Logins with UID 0 (super-user) except for the root system administrator can only be assigned for administrative logins according to predefined rules (see M 2.33 Splitting of administration activities under Unix).

It makes sense to specify naming conventions for login names and UIDs or GIDs. Furthermore, it should be checked regularly, if all UIDs are plausible. So you should z. B. only contain numbers or contain no invalid combinations such as 00 or 000.

The files / etc / passwd and / etc / group should not be edited with editors, as errors can severely affect system security. Only the corresponding administration tools should be used, but they are very system-specific.



