#M 4.323 Synchronization within patch and change management
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Change Manager

Most authorities and companies often make changes to the IT infrastructure. These changes need to be addressed by the patch and change management process. It must be ensured that the respective patches and changes are promptly and as far as possible simultaneously applied to all affected IT systems.

In the case of mobile devices or if the network technology used is overloaded, it can happen that IT systems can not be reached when distributing hardware or software changes. For such cases, suitable mechanisms must be established to ensure that systems can not log on to the network until they have been provided with suitable updates. There are several tools that check for access to the production network, whether security programs and security patches are up-to-date, and deny access to the internal network in the case of security issues. Typically, such tools are used to first determine the software version of the systems and then assemble the software for update. Depending on the type of patching and modification process, these can then be distributed and installed automatically or after prior approval for these systems. Changes that require a system restart should be installed last, or only when the IT system shuts down. Depending on the technical support and implementation of the process, the updates can also be installed and the subsequent restart can be released separately.



