#M 4.17 Block and delete unneeded accounts and terminals
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Accounts that are not used for a longer period of time should be blocked and later deleted. If you leave out files that are no longer associated with an existing user entry when you delete accounts, there is a risk that these files will be assigned to unauthorized users later on.

When removing users, unix the corresponding entries in / etc / passwd, / etc / group and the user's home directory. Likewise, make sure that other user entries in files such as / etc / hosts, shadow, u. a. be deleted. The data of the home directory should be backed up beforehand. When blocking or in any case before deleting an account, the affected user should be informed. When deleting accounts, make sure that you also find the files of the user who are not in his home directory. This can z. B. with the program find and the option -uid. Such files must be deleted or assigned to other users. Furthermore, it must be ensured that current processes and pending orders are deleted, eg. under Unix in the crontab.

Similarly, terminals that are not used for a long period of time should be blocked and later removed.

Under Unix, system-defined logins (eg sys, bin, adm, uucp, nuucp, daemon, and lp) that are not required to be blocked must be locked by entering the corresponding password field in the file / etc / passwd z. B. LOCKED is entered.

If a newly created user needs his or her account for a limited time only, it should only be set up for a limited time.

It may be advantageous to set up accounts only for a limited period of time and to extend them at regular intervals (eg annually) if necessary.

If it is foreseeable that a user of a local network is absent for a longer period of time (vacation, illness, secondment, ...), then his account should be blocked in the network server for this time, so that working under his user Identifier is no longer possible for this time. Each user should notify the network administrator of periods of lingering absence.



