#M 4.27 Access protection on the laptop
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

Every laptop should be provided with access protection that prevents it from being used without authorization. For laptops, as a minimum protection, if no other security mechanism is in place, the BIOS boot protection should be enabled if its use is possible. Only after entering the correct boot password will the computer be started up. The rules to be observed in the handling of passwords have been stated in M 2.11 Control of Password Usage.

In addition, almost all operating systems offer the possibility to set up login passwords and to provide them with suitable restrictions (eg minimum length, lifetime, etc.). Since these on-board means offer only limited security, it is advisable to use additional security hard- or software on laptops, which collect large amounts of sensitive data quickly. These include, for example, chip cards or tokens, which secure the authentication.

If no password routine is installed, if no encryption of the data takes place, the storage of sensitive data on the hard disk is forbidden and their storage instead only on mobile data carriers, so z. Floppy disks or USB sticks are allowed. These should then be stored separately from the laptop, for example in the wallet.

For short work interruptions, an access protection must be activated, eg. a screensaver. If it is foreseeable that the interruption lasts longer, turn off the laptop.



