#M 4.230 Central administration of smartphones, tablets and PDAs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The administration of mobile devices is not an easy task, especially for large institutions and for users who frequently move around the world. There are tools that facilitate central administration and the implementation of security policies. With such tools, central defaults can be implemented, for example, or the access protection during the synchronization process can be improved. Therefore, such a Mobile Device Management (MDM) tool should be used.

Basically, a well-considered integration into the existing IT environment is necessary to keep users from introducing uncontrolled and potentially unsafe smartphones, tablets, or PDAs into enterprise IT through the convenience of an MDM tool. Centralized administration not only distributes software and information, but also enforces the organization's own security policies, such as: B.f r authentication, access or backup.

When using an MDM tool, smartphones, tablets or PDAs are typically no longer synchronized with a local device, but with a server. As a result, data can be matched not only from one station, but from all devices connected to the server. This synchronization must be cryptographically secured. In many cases, the data is no longer wired, but via wireless technology, eg. Over a WLAN, synchronized. Therefore, for example, care should be taken that only cryptographically secured WLANs are used for this purpose. However, if the line is protected by an encrypted VPN connection, it can also be synchronized via an unsecured WLAN (e.g., in cafes or hotels).

When synchronizing via a server, security specifications can also be technically forced by resetting security-relevant settings to their default values. Typical functions of such tools for centralized mobile device management include:

* Personal Information Manager (PIM) manages appointments and maintains address books, not just for individual users but also for workgroups. The management of the PIM data, other information and the applications to be present on the various terminals can be controlled centrally. This can z. B.Applications can be remotely installed and configured.
* However, central address collections and other data can also be maintained and passed on. This makes it easier, especially for a large number of mobile employees, to provide the data entered on the go quickly and conveniently to other employees.
* Data can be backed up centrally without users having to worry about it. It can also be specified when or how often data is to be saved or synchronized and which boundary conditions must be met.
* Feedback on the status of smartphones, tablets and PDAs is also available, allowing remote diagnostics.
* User profiles can be created to simplify user administration.
* Organizationally specific password rules and other security rules can be specified.
* If the MDM solution for different usage contexts, such. B. private and official, is designed (see M 4.468 separation of private and business use on smartphones, tablets and PDAs), it can separate both areas. In many cases, this is done via a container solution, in which a container can be used to manage private PIM data or even applications can be installed.
* Many DME solutions also offer special measures in case the device is lost. This allows smartphones and tablets to be deleted, locked and located remotely using such programs. These functions should be carried out by the central office where the loss of the terminal is reported, in consultation with the user and following clearly defined rules (see M 2.306 Loss Report and M 6.159 Prevention of Loss and Theft of Smartphones , Tablets and PDAs).


In general, these functions can not only be offered via the docking stations which are often common with older devices, but also via other interfaces such as WLAN or Bluetooth.

A centralized management tool for smartphones, tablets, and PDAs should support as much as possible the operating systems of these mobile devices used in the organization, so that several such tools need not be used in parallel. The same applies, of course, to the groupware and e-mail platform used.



