#M 4.352 Secure dynamic DNS updates
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to be able to use dynamic updates safely, it must be ensured that only legitimate IT systems can make changes to domain information. Furthermore, it must be determined which domain information the individual IT systems are allowed to change. To ensure that domain information is not manipulated by unauthorized IT systems using dynamic updates, there are two options:

* Restriction of authorized hosts by IP addresses
* Restriction of authorized hosts using TSIG


When limited to an IP address, the IP address is used to identify the source of the dynamic update. For TSIG, symmetric encryption is used to identify the source of the dynamic update, see M 4.351 Securing Zone Transfers.

Besides the vulnerability for IP spoofing, there is another problem when using IP addresses. Secondary DNS servers can be set up as forwarders for dynamic updates, and the primary DNS server can be configured to accept only updates from Secondary DNS servers. Because only Secondary DNS servers configure which IT systems will accept updates, the Primary DNS server will not know where the updates come from. Thus, it is not possible, due to the original source, to limit which hosts may perform dynamic DNS updates.

In addition to identifying the source, it is necessary to configure which domain information may be changed. The rules should be configured to allow a smooth deployment of dynamic updates. For example, a DHCP server requires permission to change the mapping of domain names and IP addresses, but there is no reason to allow a DHCP server to change the DNS server responsible for a zone.



