#M 4.342 Activation of the Last Access timestamp from Windows Vista
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The NTFS file system maintains three timestamps to track changes to the file system. These timestamps are also called MAC timestamps. The term MAC-Time stands under Windows for the modification, access and creation time of a file in the NTFS file system.

* The Modification Time is the last time a file was accessed for write access. This timestamp is updated as the contents of the file change.
* Last Access Time is the time a file was last read or executed. This timestamp is updated when metadata or file contents are displayed. It does not matter if the file has been saved or otherwise changed. If the file is opened, called up or viewed by other means, this is reflected in the time stamp.
* Creation Time is the time when a file was rebuilt or created by copying.


If you need to analyze a disk with NTFS during the investigation of a security incident (see B.1.8 Handling security incidents), a MAC-Times analysis will help to find out which files were read during the alleged misuse , executed or modified. This indicates which configuration files or system files have been changed, for example, to install a backdoor in the system. In addition, you can analyze files that have changed during the time of the attack, and you may be able to find out which system crash method was used. By creating so-called timelines, it is possible to determine quite precisely when a file was copied to a system and whether it was subsequently viewed or called up.

On Windows Vista, Windows 7, and Windows Server 2008, updating the last-access timestamp in the registry is disabled by default because you might be slowing down the performance of an unfavorable file system structure. In the context of creating a security concept for such a system, it should be checked whether the last-access timestamp should be written to facilitate the analysis of a system abuse. Performance aspects are to be included in the evaluation. If there are other appropriate methods of abuse analysis, the activation of the function can be omitted.

To enable the last-access timestamp, set the registry key HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE / SYSTEM / CurrentControlSet / Control / FileSystem / NtfsDisableLastAccessUpdate to 0.



