#M 4.324 Configure auto-update mechanisms for patch and change management
Responsible for initiation: change manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Many products have automatic update mechanisms (autoupdate) that inform users when there are patches or updates. Often, these also offer the option of downloading and installing updates instantly over the Internet. As a rule, today all operating systems and available standard software packages contain such mechanisms. The functionality of the update mechanism varies depending on the version, installation mode and manufacturer.

Usually, auto-update IT products look for new versions or software packages on a public update server each time the system is started or whenever they are dialed into the Internet. Products provide several ways to configure the auto-update mechanism. When new IT components are put into operation, it should always be checked whether and which update mechanisms they have and how they can be configured. It should also be checked which data is transferred from the auto-update mechanism to the manufacturer. It should first be clarified in principle how these mechanisms are handled. Then it should be determined how the update functions are concretely configured in the different products. In the following an overview of different variants of these mechanisms is given.

The complete deactivation is not offered by every software. If the institution wants to prevent the uncontrolled communication of IT components with the outside world, then packet filters must be used for this purpose.

If a query from a public update server is not desired, many software products can be redirected to Internet addresses other than the manufacturer's, for example internal ones.

Some manufacturers offer software for the self-operation of update servers or update mirror servers, whereby the update server is locally installed in the institution (eg Windows Server Update Services WSUS). The update server then communicates directly with the manufacturer, and launches the desired updates directly from the manufacturer. The advantage of this solution is that the IT systems of an institution affected by the update do not have to communicate with the manufacturer's update server themselves, but only with the locally installed. This allows the traffic to the outside to a Mindestma  be reduced. With many products for update servers, the desired settings can be conveniently made via a graphical user interface (GUI). However, there are also products in which the necessary settings to use local update servers or to prevent the query from a public update server are hidden or can only be prevented by packet filters or firewalls.

If public update servers are to be used, the authenticity of the update server must first be checked, see M 4.177 Ensuring Integrity and Authenticity of Software Packages. In addition, it should be investigated whether time intervals or events for controlling the update query action can be set. The settings must then be made according to the defined change strategy.

It should be checked how the communication with update servers can be reduced to the lowest possible level. In addition, it must be decided whether direct communication with the manufacturer should be the only alternative or parallel to internal communication (parallel configuration).

A parallel configuration often makes sense for mobile users who do not always communicate within the office or enterprise network. For mobile IT systems, for example, it may be more important to load a current patch when it closes a dangerous security gap than to wait for release from the change management. However, it may also be desirable that all software changes are made solely through the internal shared software distribution.

Amongst other things, auto-update mechanisms still have to be aware of whether the changes are only downloaded to an internal IT system by the manufacturer and the installation of the change is then left to the user or whether they are automatically installed immediately after downloading.

In addition, it must be determined how to deal with any necessary reboots of IT systems after the installation of changes, ie whether they are direct or z. only when the system is shut down.



