#M 4.317 Secure migration of Windows directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Improved functionality, increased security, greater compatibility, and vendor support are migrating existing Windows NT 4.0 server structures to Windows 2000 Server or Windows Server 2003 (collectively, Windows Server 2003) called) advisable. With Windows 2000 Server, features and security features have been significantly improved over Windows NT 4.0 servers. Therefore, a migration should be considered. In the run-up to this are to be decided in a planning phase,

* which servers / services can be consolidated,
* whether the (target) hardware used is sufficiently powerful and meets the increased system requirements,
* whether the services required within the network are compatible with the newer software (protocols, rights, etc.).


The functionality that is already available under Windows 2000 Server, for example .DNS and Active Directory, will be extended accordingly by the migration to Windows Server 2003. In general, a migration should first be carried out in a test environment in order to be able to ensure the best possible migration of the productive system on the basis of the resulting results.



## Examples 
* Is the migration of the Windows Directory Service planned?
* Is the migration of the Windows Directory service to the  chat tested in a test environment?
* Did you upgrade the server environment after the migration?
* Is it checked after the migration to see if all the data and settings have been correctly applied and working?




