#M 4.441 Multi factor authentication for the cloud user access
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A controlled access to the resources and data of different cloud users represents an essential aspect in the realization of a multi-client cloud solution with a heterogeneous user structure. For this purpose, different authentication methods can be used.

A safe solution here is multifactor authentication. At least two factors are required for successful authentication. Often, knowledge (a password, a PIN or similar) and possession (a chip card, an USB stick or similar) are combined. For example, a two-factor authentication can be used. For example, a hardware-based authentication with chip cards or USB sticks or single-use passwords generated by hardware components can be realized.

When implementing a cloud solution, the following points should be noted in terms of authentication:

* In any case, access to all IT systems or cloud services must be secured by authentication of the accessing users or IT systems, even if only through a password.
* For security-critical areas of application, strong authentication, ie at least two-factor authentication, should be used if access to the used cloud service takes place directly over the Internet.
* Multifactor authentication is especially recommended for logging on privileged cloud users to manage cloud services. In addition, the cloud user must decide on a risk-based basis whether this secure authentication method should be extended to other users of his cloud services.
* It is recommended to set up a multifactor authentication for self-service portals. There, cloud users can manage their cloud services and directly submit the changed cloud requirements and associated cloud resources to the automated orchestration of the cloud service provider through an application, which can charge them accordingly , For security recommendations regarding the continuity of protection for a self-service portal, reference is made to module B 5.21 Web applications, since the portals are usually provided as a web application.
* There are also scenarios in which a user goes through a multi-factor authentication before logging on to cloud services. This can be. For example, when logging in to the cloud user's network, or when establishing a VPN connection from the customer network to the cloud. Then a repeated multi-factor authentication can be omitted when logging on to the cloud.




