#M 4.153 Secure installation of Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

After planning an eDirectory directory system (see M 2.236 Planning to Use Novell eDirectory), eDirectory must be installed on the relevant servers. During the installation phase, an eDirectory server is not completely configured so that the desired security settings are not yet activated. It is therefore advisable to carry out the initial configuration either in a protected environment or alternatively to play a prepared standard configuration.



When installing an eDirectory server into an existing directory tree, its exact context must be specified. A later shift of the server within the tree can only be accomplished with greater effort.

During installation u. a. also the initial configuration of the local security settings. The most important basic settings relate to

* the definition of the eDirectory tree,
* the eDirectory access permissions,
* the eDirectory inheritance settings and
* the security settings for LDAP access.


During installation, some of these settings can be specified, but a part is initially initialized with default values. For servers that

First, to represent a new eDirectory tree, you must first install the eDirectory certificate server component before you can use SSL-protected LDAP access. The alternative is that the eDirectory server joins an existing eDirectory tree.

Depending on which eDirectory modules are used, a secure installation configuration must be set up for each module to prevent access while the server is in the initial configuration phase and until the specified security policies have been implemented. Further recommendations can be found in M 4.155 Secure Configuration of Novell eDirectory.



In general, the following must be observed during the installation from a security perspective:

* The current access settings for the System directory after an eDirectory installation depend on whether the software has been reinstalled or upgraded.
* Other upgrade mechanisms can change the default settings, such as: For example, the inclusion of a Windows NT domain in an eDirectory tree.
* If a new server is to be included in an existing eDirectory tree, the implicit inheritance mechanism allows the initial configuration to be significantly reduced.
* When installing the eDirectory servers special care is required as they store sensitive data in later operation.


eDirectory servers may only be installed and operated on servers that are in a physically secure environment (see also M 1.29 Appropriate installation of an IT system). This applies in particular to eDirectory servers on which the partition with the security container is stored.



