#M 4.340 Use of the Windows User Account Control UAC as of Windows Vista
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

User Account Control (UAC) is a security mechanism in Windows that is available from Vista on the client side and Server 2008 on the server side. The UAC implements the Least-Privileged User Account principle to limit the abuse of administrative privileges. In particular, it supports the implementation of measure M 2.32 Establishment of a restricted user environment for normal users and administrators.

When user account control is active, all users are always working as standard users. Even administrators initially perform their activities as standard users. TheUAC recognizes when an activity requires elevated rights and releases or denies them as it has been configured. TheUAC affects only local user sessions (including Remote Desktop sessions). Users logging in over the network from other machines (for example, accessing file shares) have no effect when Dom nen accounts are used.

Local accounts are not compatible with all network-based administration services when UAC is enabled, for example when accessing the Windows Management Interface (WMI) interface of the IT system over the network. Administration services and activities should therefore always be performed with domain accounts.

Certain activities require elevated privileges within the local session that standard users do not own. These activities include, for example, the installation of applications, writing access to system directories, older specialized applications or the execution of certain operating system programs and administrative scripts. But also malicious programs use almost always increased rights. If accounts with administrator privileges are used on the IT system, the UC should always be enabled. Under Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008, this is the default.

On Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2, the UAC is preset in a shadowed form. Administrative accounts can continue to work with unrestricted privileges without dimming the desktop. In order for the UAC's protection against attackers and malicious programs to be effective, they must be configured to Always notify (Control Panel | User Accounts | Change User Account Control Settings).



## Examples 
* Is User Account Control (UAC) enabled?
* Is the GPO policy User Account Control: Behavior of Raising Request for Default Users Configured with the Automatically Deny Requests for Elevated Rights setting configured?
* For administrators, is the GPO policy User Account Control: Configure user prompt behavior with increased administrator-level privileges in Admin Approval mode for a consideration of usability and security level, and document this decision?
* Are all accounts with administrator rights documented?
* Are assigned administrator rights regularly checked for their necessity, adjusted accordingly and possibly withdrawn?




