#M 4.138 Configure Windows Server as Dom nen Controller
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Domain controllers provide Windows 2000 Server and Windows Server 2003 (hereafter referred to as Windows servers) network services that are required to manage a Windows server in a network based on server operating systems. among which the Active Directory Service (ADS) plays the most important role. As a rule, a domain controller also offers the name service DNS (Domain Name Service), without which the Active Directory can not be operated. In Windows, Windows references to important Windows server resources whose integrity is essential for the proper functioning of a Windows server domain. Because a domain controller acts as the logon server, it performs the necessary Kerberos service. The Kerberos components on the domain controller also retain the secret keys used in the authentication protocol.

Since every Dom nen controller plays an important role and valuable data is saved by it, the following points should be noted for the configuration. In addition, for a domain controller, the aspects described in the M .4.137 Secure Configuration of Windows 2000 and M .4.139 Configuration of Windows 2000 as Server are also applicable accordingly.

* The security of a domain controller derives mainly from two main areas: the security of the operating system configuration and the security of the Active Directory, which uses its own security mechanisms (see also M 3.27 Active Directory Management Training). , The security settings of the operating system are essentially based on group policies, and the security settings of the Active Directory require appropriate planning and implementation (see M 2.229 Active Directory Planning, M 2.231 Group Policy Planning in Windows).
* Only authorized administrators can log on locally to a domain controller. User operation on a domain controller must not be allowed. Therefore, after a default installation, normal users are not allowed to log in locally to a domain controller.


* A Dom nen controller should in addition to the mandatory standard Dom nen controller services, such. Active Directory, Kerberos and DNS, do not provide any additional infrastructure services (eg DFS, DHCP). In particular, the operation of a DHCP server on a Dom nen controller must be discouraged for security reasons (see also Microsoft documentation on DNS and DHCP). Both services run under the same permissions. As a result, the access rights to DNS data can no longer be enforced if the DHCP service makes changes to DNS data.
* A domain controller should not offer any (application) server services, as faults in the server programs can compromise the domain controller and thus the entire Windows server domain.


Domain controllers should be configured as securely as possible. After the default installation, the template file secdc.inf (on Windows 2003 Server securedc.inf) or hisecdc.inf should be applied. The template files can be found in the Windows server system directory under% windir% / security / templates and can either be configured from the command line by means of the secedit command, or viewed or applied via the MMC plug-ins security templates and security configuration and analysis become. Depending on the environment, the settings made by the templates secdc.inf (under Windows Server 2003 securedc.inf) or hisecdc.inf must be adjusted. This may be necessary, for example, if old systems, eg. OS / 2, which provide less secure settings. Further information on planning the security settings can be found in M 2.231 Planning of Group Policy under Windows. As an additional set of rules for migrating from Windows NT Server to Windows 2003 Server, we recommend that you migrate from Windows NT Server 4.0 to Windows, available from the Microsoft Download Center (http://www.microsoft.com/downloads) Server 2003. This describes in detail all configuration adjustments required for the conversion.

* The configuration of the channel used for the communication of administration data between computers of a Windows server domain should be as secure as possible (see M 5.89 Configuring the secure channel under Windows).


* If possible, a domain controller should be run in native mode to take full advantage of all Windows client mechanisms (as of Windows 2000). These are, for example, universal groups, group nesting and the assignment of the RAS access authorization via a group affiliation. Switching to native mode is possible if no Windows NTBDC (backup domain controller) is operated in the domain. The operation of Windows NT servers and workstations is also possible in native mode. It should be noted that it is no longer possible to return to mixed mode and thus to an NT domain.


* If a domain controller can be booted in the so-called Active Directory Restore mode, it is possible to make changes to the AD by For example, old states (partial or full) are loaded from backup media. These changes can be imported so that after regular booting through Active Directory replication they are propagated to all other domain controllers in a domain. It is therefore important to ensure that the Active Directory Restore mode is protected by a suitable password and that working in this mode is only in compliance with the four-eye principle. The Active Directory Restore mode is command line based and typing errors can have serious consequences, such as: For example, delete or overwrite the wrong Active Directory branch. Therefore, the four-eyes-principle offers here in addition to the activity control also a security by the control of all entries by two persons.
* The Dom nen controllers of the Forest Root Domain (FRD) are particularly vulnerable because of the special status of the FRD.


In general, the physical security must always be ensured for each domain controller, eg by setting it up in a server room.



