#M 4.410 Use of network access protection under Windows
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Under the heading Network Access Protection (Network Access Protection) Microsoft operating systems several protection techniques are summarized. They control the access of individual IT systems to a network as a function of the security level realized on the respective IT system. In this way, the sensitive systems reachable in the network are protected against threats from other systems with inadequate security measures such as outdated virus signatures.

Microsoft has integrated a network access protection mechanism into some products under the name Network Access Protection (NAP). Use of NAP is optional, requires at least Windows Server 2008, Windows Vista, Windows 7, or Windows XP with Service Pack 3 clients. Components on the Windows server control client access. At the sign-on process, they send information about their security level, such as updated updates or the timeliness of the virus signatures to the server. Based on stored security rules (policies), the server decides whether the clients can access the network, or whether access is denied or limited to a few servers. These servers typically include services that the client needs to recover to the desired state. This can be an update mechanism for virus signatures or Windows updates.

Access to the network to be protected can be controlled at different levels:

* VPN Access: In this scenario, the Windows server controls access from a VPN-attached computer to the internal network.
* IPSec: Even when establishing encrypted communication channels via IP, a Windows server can include the security status of the client in the check.
* IEEE 802.1X: This is a standard that provides authentication of IT systems in a network as the basis for access control. The authentication is done directly between Endger t and a so-called LAN service access point, typically a network switch with appropriate Funktionalit t. In conjunction with Windows Server 2008, IEEE802.1X-aware switches can also request a client security level check and verify compliance with the security requirements of the network during the authentication process.
* DHCP: In this approach, a DHCP configuration is sent to the client depending on whether its security status is being checked, allowing or restricting network access. However, this variant is easily spoiled by an attacker and not recommended.
* Terminal server access: Even when clients access a Windows terminal server viaRDP, a security check via NAP can be included in the authentication process at the terminal server gateway.


Depending on the scenario, the technical processes and the components used are different. In any case, the clients require a locally running component called the System Health Agent (SHA), which uses system health validators (SHVs) to determine the local parameters of the security configuration and send them to the remote site , In Windows XP Service Pack 3, Windows Vista, and Windows 7 clients, an equivalent SHA is included in the operating system, and implementations are also available for clients running Mac OS X or Linux.

The client available in Windows can check the following conditions:

* Firewall software is installed and enabled on the client computer.
* The client computer has anti-virus software installed and running.
* The client computer has the latest anti-virus updates installed.
* The client computer has anti-spyware software installed and running.
* The client computer has anti-spyware updates installed.
* The Microsoft Update services are enabled on the client computer.


The server components involved in the audit comprise a Health Registration Authority (HRA) for issuing certificates for verified clients, a server for the transmission and management of network policies, depending on the protection mechanism selected. Network Policy Server, NPS), which balances the submitted configurations with the policy, and so-called Enforcement Servers (ES) to enforce the result of the NAP check.

At the network level, Cisco offers its own implementation of a network access protection concept under the name Network Admission Control. Both technologies can also be used in combination. To do this, the Cisco network components integrate a query with a Windows Network Policy Server to check the clients.

NAP is a recommended way to additionally secure sensitive systems in a network. However, the security gain must not be overestimated: As the agents inevitably run on the clients themselves to determine the security level, an attacker can in principle manipulate the client with administrative access in such a way that he can gain access to the network with the wrong information. NAP does not protect against targeted attacks, but is particularly suitable for mitigating damage from undirected attacks such as viral infections.

When planning the use of NAP, the following aspects must be considered:

* Defining the protection goals pursued with NAP: Which information values ??should be protected with NAP and against which dangers should they be protected with NAPs?
* Planning the NAP architecture: Based on which technical implementation variant is NAP used? Which server components are used and on which servers are they operated?
* Planning the NAP regulations: Which systems and networks should be protected by NAP? What are the requirements of IT systems that want to access the protected areas? What services must be available for a rejected system to restore the desired state?
* Planning the NAP administration: Who has administrative access to the NAP systems and rules? Who is responsible for the up-to-dateness and maintenance of the regulations?




