#M 4.470 Basic knowledge of Windows 8
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Windows 8 client operating system from Microsoft is basically a further development of Windows 7. In addition, however, it is the first operating system in the Windows family that can be used on both classic PC systems as well was developed on tablet PCs.

On the one hand, significant parts of the code base of Windows Vista and Windows 7 have been adopted so that applications can continue to be used in principle. At the same time, however, another layer of the operating system was added, the surface of which Modern UI (formerly known as Metro) is optimized for touch devices, shares a code base with the likewise new Windows Phone 8 and is not binocular to the classic part of Windows is.

The edition Windows RT contains only the modern part and is up to and including version 8.1 exclusively on favorable ARM processors executable. The actual Windows 8, in contrast, can be installed independently on Intel or AMD processors (x86 / x64) and, in addition, can execute both classic and modern UI applications (apps). In some cases, applications exist simultaneously in both versions (such as Internet Explorer).

The peculiarities of the system structure mean that many dangers and measures can be taken over from existing building blocks of the building block layer 3 of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs and, if necessary, supplemented accordingly , Here are in particular the building blocks to Windows XP, Vista and Windows 7 as well as general client to call.

In addition, there are new aspects to consider that did not affect previous versions of Windows. As an example, u. a. the cloud connection mentions, ie the partially activated in the default setting or the user unaware integration of cloud services in the operating system.

As with previous versions of Windows, Windows 8 introduced some new security features that need to be re-evaluated and evaluated (see M 4.471 Overview of New Security-Related Features in Windows 8).

The updates of Windows 8 released by Microsoft as Windows 8.1 are included in the corresponding IT-Grundschutz module.



## Examples 
* Windows 8 RT ships with Enabled Device Encryption, Windows Update enabled, and Windows Defender.
* A domain can not be joined.
* The Windows RT version comes only as a preinstalled operating system, the direct reference by end users is not possible.




