#M 4.465 Disposal of mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and PDAs
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

Time and again, on pre-owned mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and PDAs, confidential data of the previous owners are discovered, violating the information security of the institution that sells or inappropriately sells the device. End devices are also bought up by institutions for targeted attacks and examined for sensitive data.

On discarded mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and PDAs, all valuable information must be properly destroyed. To do this, the device memory and any existing memory card should be deleted with special software. The device must be reset to factory condition. In addition, it must be checked whether all data has been really deleted, to do this, the controller can use special computer forensics software and devices. If, by means of a forensic approach, correspondingly critical data are found and there is no method for the specific mobile phone to delete it safely, it is recommended that the device be destroyed. If only the external memory card is discarded or disposed of, M 2.13 Proper disposal of valuable equipment should be considered.

If a smartphone, tablet or PDA is to be sold in which information security measures have changed the operating system kernel or the operating system, then it should be taken into account that this measure usually provides the guarantee or support of the Manufacturer goes out. It is therefore necessary to consider whether these measures need to be reversed prior to a sale.

Mobile phones, smartphones, tablets and PDAs are usually not to be disposed of via household garbage. Appropriate regulations for disposal must be observed and controlled.



