#M 4.484 Memory protection for embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: developer, procurer, planner

If several software components are running in an embedded system, it may be useful to separate them. If a separate microcontroller is not to be used for each component, this can also be achieved by memory protection technologies. The aim of the memory protection is to structure memory and separate areas so that a programming error or crash of a single program does not affect the stability of other programs or the overall system. Programs should be prevented from accessing the memory area of ??other programs.

In order to better secure data on the embedded system with increased integrity and availability requirements, memory protection mechanisms should already be considered in the design of the system. An implementation form must be chosen which ensures the required level of security and does not conflict with the operational requirements of the embedded system. The two basic implementations are hardware memory protection and software memory protection.

On the hardware side, a memory management unit (MMU) or a simpler memory protection unit (MPU) can support memory protection. With an MMU, it is possible to combine multiple virtual processors on a physical processor managed by the operating system. Each program can get its own virtual microcontroller, and the resources of the physical microcontroller can be flexibly assigned. MMU are standard components of servers, PCs and modern smartphones, in small embedded systems they are usually not present.

In an MPU, all programs use the shared address space of the physical memory. The MPU monitors which memory area a program accesses. If access is not allowed, the operating system can intercept the memory access before the data in the memory is changed. Theoretically, each program could have a separate, so-called shelter. Due to the scarce resources of embedded systems, however, only as many protection areas should be established as necessary, eg. B. two to separate the execution of trusted programs from those of untrusted ones.

With hardware-based memory protection, the memory accesses are monitored by the hardware. This approach also works if the untrusted software component is programmed directly in a machine language. The monitored memory accesses include not only the load and store instructions but also machine instructions that are loaded prior to their execution. If the check for memory access fails, the hardware interrupts the execution of the current machine program and switches to interrupt handling in the system software. Which rights apply to which memory area is described by special, access-protected registers. A hardware-based memory protection suitable CPU requires a hardware that supports a privileged and an unprivileged operating mode.

In the case of software-based memory protection, the memory accesses are not implicitly checked by the hardware, but in advance explicitly by the software. The check can sometimes take place at the time of translation or even at runtime, for example by automatically generated checks.



