#M 4.286 Use the software restriction policy in Windows Server 2003
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Due in part to the intensive use of the Internet (WWW, e-mail, etc.), users are often confronted with unknown software. Users have to decide if they want to use this software. Malware z. B. often disguise themselves as so-called Trojan horses to persuade users to install and execute them. For the individual user it is often difficult to decide which software he can and should execute. Software containment policies can protect the IT environment from unintended or untrusted software.

After a standard installation of Windows Server 2003, at least one local software restriction policy should be generated:

Start | Control Panel | Administration | Local Security Policy | In the context menu of Software Restriction Policies, select the option Create new policies for software restrictions

Settings under Trusted Publishers:

* Enable administrators of the local computer
* Enable publisher and timestamp


Designated file types are the file types affected by the software restriction policies. Therefore, the list of designated file types should be updated regularly. For example, the antivirus policy of the IT federation, which defines critical file extensions, can serve as a reference.

The other settings should normally be left at their default values. In particular, the predefined rules should not be changed, since otherwise the system can be put into an unusable state. The policies should always apply to all users including administrators.



## Examples 
* After installing Windows Server 2003 systems, will a local software restriction policy be created that includes, among other things, an up-to-date list of designated file types?
* Are the software restriction policies in Windows Server 2003 pre-tested within a test environment?
* Is the software mitigation policy in Windows Server 2003 preferred to work with hash and certificate rules?




