#M 4.416 Use of Windows Server Core
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

As of Windows Server 2008, the operating system can be installed as Server Core. The Server Core is a minimal, largely graphical, non-graphical system. Configurations on the system itself are possible only through the command line or on Windows Server 2008 R2 with PowerShell, as long as this feature is installed.

The advantages of a server core are:

* The attack surface of the system is significantly reduced (less software means less relevant vulnerabilities).
* There are fewer patches to record. This results in less downtime due to software maintenance.


In certain cases, such as when used as Hyper-V and the lower resource consumption is advantageous.

A Server Core installation should be considered for all server services when setting up well-defined and centralized infrastructure services or when greater protection needs are foreseeable.

Since no direct migration between a full installation and Server Core is possible, it must be decided in the planning phase whether Server Core should be used and whether certain features are required. Particular attention should also be paid to the nature of the administration.

The administrators of a server core must be sufficiently trained to administer the server via the available tools on the command line.

The missing interactive local administration options are usually outweighed by generic remote administration capabilities (Server Manager, MMC) or application-specific remote management capabilities. The applicability of existing administration tools should be checked in advance.

Not all roles or features can be installed on a server core, only specific roles are supported. The biggest limitation in practice is the lack of support for .NET (no managed code) in the standard installation.

The main focus of the supported server roles is therefore on simple services like

* Active Directory Certificate Services,
* Active Directory Domain Services,
* Active Directory Lightweight Directory Services (AD-LDS),
* DHCP server, DNS server,
* File services, printing services,
* Hyper-V,
* Streaming media services and
* Web server.


Since not every software can be used on the Server Core, a sufficient test of the software to be used on this configuration is indispensable.



