#M 4.85 Suitable interface design for crypto modules
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

A crypto module should be designed and configurable to control or restrict the entire flow of information to and from the module, or even direct physical access to the module's dataset. Depending on the application or protection requirements, the use of physically separate input and output ports is recommended. In any case, the module interfaces should be constructed so that the individual data channels are logically different, although they may share a common input or output port. In connection with the key management of the crypto module, it must be ensured that the output channels are at least logically separated from the internal key generation or the input port for the manual key input. In many cases separate interfaces will be available to connect an external power supply or an external power supply and to exclusively use repair or maintenance tasks. From the perspective of the crypto module, therefore, the following division and use is expedient:

* Data input interface that carries all those input data of the crypto module that are further processed or processed in the module (eg cryptographic keys, authentication information, status information from other crypto modules, plain text data, etc.).
* Data output interface which carries all the data of the crypto module which is to reach the environment from the module (eg encrypted data, authentication information, control information for other crypto modules, etc.).
* Control input interface that performs all control commands, signals and data for sequencing and setting the operation of the module.
* Status output interface that sends all signals, indications and data to the environment to indicate the internal security state of the crypto module.


And finally

* Maintenance interface, which serves exclusively for maintenance and / or repair purposes.


The documentation for a crypto component should contain a description of all components (hardware, firmware and / or software).

Furthermore, the documentation should include the complete specification of the module interfaces, plus the physical or logical ports, manual or logical control units, physical or logical display elements and their physical, logical or electrical properties. If a crypto-component contains a maintenance interface, the documentation should also provide the complete specification of the maintenance processes to be performed. All physical and logical input and output channels within the module must be explicitly disclosed. In addition to the concrete integration of the crypto component in a designated environment of use, the operation and use of the crypto component is to be described.

The documentation should also contain a compilation of the security functionality and possibly the dependency of hardware, firmware or software, which, depending on the design of the crypto component, are not directly supplied with the crypto component.

The documentation about the module interfaces must be provided by the module manufacturer. For example, the documentation is required by an administrator who intends to integrate the crypto module into their system environment, or by an evaluator who wants to make a security assessment of the crypto module.



