#M 4.461 Portability of Cloud Services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, specialist responsible, IT security officer

In principle, switching from one service provider to another is easier with cloud usage than is the case, for example, with traditional outsourcing projects. In practice, however, it has been shown that cloud services often also encounter problems when they are to be transferred to another cloud service provider or brought back into their own institution.

Institutions that choose to use cloud services and have more stringent flexibility requirements should therefore implement additional measures to maintain the portability of cloud services.

The need for the portability of cloud services results, on the one hand, from a targeted change in the cloud service provider and, on the other hand, from the option of having cloud services provided by the IT of one's own institution. When changing the cloud service provider, the cloud service can be transferred directly from one service provider to another. In cases where this is not possible or desired, the cloud service is initially handed over to the commissioning institution and then migrated to the new cloud service provider.

In both cases, the institution must define all the important requirements (for example regarding the data formats to be used) that enable a simple change of the service provider or a return to the own infrastructure.

In particular, when using software as a service, special attention should be paid to the data formats used. In practice, problems often occur when importing the data into a new service, since the cloud service provider uses his own, non-standardized format. Performing portability tests can significantly help ensure the portability of cloud services.

Insofar as the using institution relies on the flexible change of the cloud service provider, it is recommended that the portability be regulated by contract. In this case, the substantive requirements of the contract drafting measure (see M 2.541 Contract drafting with the cloud service provider) must be supplemented by the corresponding aspect.



