#M 4.368 Regular audits of the terminal server environment
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, auditor

For all components of the terminal server infrastructure, it must be checked on a regular basis whether all defined security measures have been implemented and correctly configured. In addition to the terminal servers themselves, these include administrative services such as session databases and license servers, but also elements of the security infrastructure.

In particular, authentication servers and security gateways should be regularly audited at the transition points between two networks to which the terminal server environment has connections. This also applies to routers, firewalls and VLAN-forming switches. Web portals (see B 5.4 Web server) that can provide applications as an intermediate link must also be taken into account.

Log data of the individual components can provide important information on critical occurrences. During logging, many entries are usually made, so that they can only be meaningfully evaluated with the help of a tool.

When investigating for possible security events, entries should be analyzed for logon and logoff events as well as usage periods of users. In addition, attention must be paid to unauthorized session reflections.

An important aspect regarding the availability of the terminal server environment is the utilization of resources such as memory, processor and disk space, as well as the bandwidth used in the network or the number of active sessions. In order to be able to correctly assess developments here, appropriate analyzes must be carried out in advance (see M 2.465 Analysis of the required system resources of terminal servers and M 5.162 Planning of the cable capacities when using terminal servers). This is the only way reliable backgounds on bottlenecks in the individual terminal server environment are possible.

In addition to the information that can be gathered from log data, it is essential to control the secure basic configuration of the terminal server. Here, at least random sampling should be carried out to inspect the execution of the terminal server systems, their file systems and the downstream services.

Special attention should be paid to forgotten temporary files that may be generated during the automatic installation, as they often contain critical information such as: B. Unencrypted credentials.

Furthermore, the client systems that are accessed via terminal servers must be checked regularly. For a larger number, this should at least be random. First of all, the configuration of locally installed client software should be checked for unauthorized changes. If printer drivers specialized in terminal server operation are used, these should also be included in the investigation. Furthermore, for clients with a stand-alone operating system (fat clients), the version level of the operating system as well as the timeliness and integrity of the client software and virus protection must be taken into account.

In addition to the above-mentioned technical means for analyzing safety, user interviews can reveal problems in reliability or safety incidents.

If any irregularities or weaknesses are detected, they must be documented and recorded as to how they are to be tracked.

In addition to the audits of the individual terminal server components, a revision of the guideline for secure terminal server usage should also be carried out cyclically. An assessment should be made as to whether the measures taken to secure the terminal server environment are still state-of-the-art and whether the underlying protection requirements are still valid.

In addition, it should always be questioned whether all users are informed about the necessary and related to the terminal server operation, security measures and implement them.

It still has to be decided who will inspect the logs and audit data. In this case, an appropriate separation between event originator and evaluator (eg administrator and auditor) must be made. In particular, the legal requirements of data protection must be observed for all data collected.



