#M 4.155 Secure configuration of Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The configuration of eDirectory can be extended by a variety of other modules whose functions go beyond a directory service. These include:

* the LDAP server module that allows access to the user information for LDAP clients,
* the iMonitor tool, which allows administrative access via a web browser,
* the Service Location Protocol (SLP) module, which manages service URLs and includes them in resource management,
* the ConsoleOne as administration platform of the eDirectory,
* the certificate server, which is always installed during the initial installation of an eDirectory server within an eDirectory tree,
* possibly used additional modules, such. For example, the Groupwise support module.


This results in a bundle of configuration tasks, which is supplemented by the following topics:

* Configuration of the directory tree hierarchy,
* Configuration of object access rights,
* Configuration of inheritance filters,
* Configuration of security equivalence between individual objects or object classes
* Configuration of the administration roles,
* Configuration of the delegation of administration tasks,
* Configuration of users and user groups,
* Distribution of key management objects (KMOs),
* Configuration of client access to eDirectory,
* Configuration of the partitioning of the eDirectory directory database,
* Configure replicas of the eDirectory directory service,
* Configuration of the DirXML interface for synchronization with foreign directory services,
* Configuration of system monitoring.


This all originated from the eDirectory software. However, it must be remembered that the underlying operating system must also be securely configured, especially as regards server access, network connectivity, and the file system.

Depending on the application scenario and the range of functions offered by the eDirectory server, it must be checked which additional modules are required and used for the operation of eDirectory. Unused modules should not be installed because each installed module can cause security problems if misconfigured.

For each activated module a corresponding safety planning must be carried out. This is then implemented by means of suitable configuration parameters (see also M .2.238 Defining a security policy for Novell eDirectory).

eDirectory offers extensive options for configuring user access for the individual user accounts created in the directory. In addition to the individual configuration of individual user accounts, templates can also be used to configure a large number of user accounts identically. The available setting options include u. a.

* a limitation of the times, at which a log-on to the user account is possible,
* a limitation of the IP addresses from which it is possible to log in,
* a limit on the number of simultaneous logons to a user account,
* Password length and password expiration requirements.




There is also the option of directly deactivating user accounts or having them deactivated automatically after a certain period of time.

The security of an eDirectory system also depends on the security of the client software used for access. Therefore, for the secure configuration of an eDirectory system, the client-side computers and programs must also be included. Recommendations for this are summarized separately in M 4.156 Secure Configuration of the Novell eDirectory Client Software. Special protective measures must be implemented for the administrative access to eDirectory.

An eDirectory system usually does not only consist of an eDirectory server but of a whole server network (see also M 2.236 Planning the Use of Novell eDirectory). The directory database can be distributed in the form of individual partitions on different servers. Furthermore, the individual servers can replicate the directory databases with each other. By having multiple copies of a database partition on different servers, load sharing can be achieved. In order to ensure the timeliness of the directory copies, changes to the data must be exchanged between the servers. Therefore, a replication concept must be created. Among other things, the following aspects are to be considered:

* Which server holds the master replica of an eDirectory partition?
* Which types of replication are configured?
* Which servers should the eDirectory directory be replicated to?
* Which information of the eDirectory directory should be replicated (definition of filters)?
* Should changes to replicas of the directory be allowed and should they be transferred to the original (definition as type read / write or as read-only)?


Since a system is usually subject to constant changes due to ongoing operation, the security must also be permanently checked and reconfigured. For more information, see M 4.159 Safe Operation of Novell eDirectory.



