#M 4.82 Secure configuration of active network components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In addition to the security of server systems and terminals, the actual network infrastructure with the active network components is in many cases neglected. However, central active network components must be configured carefully. For while a faulty configuration of a server system affects only those users who use the corresponding services of this system, in the case of a misconfiguration of a router, larger subnets or even the entire network can fail or data can be unnoticed compromised.

As part of the network concept (see M 2.141 Development of a network concept), the secure configuration of the active network components should also be specified. In particular, the following should be noted:

* For routers and Layer 3 switching, it is necessary to select which protocols are forwarded and which ones are blocked. This can be done by implementing suitable filter rules.
* Furthermore, it must be determined which IT systems communicate in which direction via the routers. This too can be realized by filter rules.
* If this is supported by the active network components, it should be determined which IT systems have access to the ports of the switches of the local network. For this purpose, the MAC address of the accessing IT system is evaluated and checked for its authorization.


For active network components with routing functionality, appropriate protection of the routing updates is also required. These are required to update the routing tables in order to achieve a dynamic adaptation to the current conditions of the local network. There are two different security mechanisms:

* PasswordsUse of passwords protects routers configured in this way before accepting routing updates from routers that do not have the appropriate password. As a result, routers can be prevented from accepting incorrect or invalid routing updates. The advantage of passwords over the other protection mechanisms is their low overhead, which requires little throughput and computation time.
* Cryptographic checksum totals protect against unnoticed changes to valid routing updates on the way through the network. Together with a sequence number or unique identifier, a checksum may also protect against re-importing old routing updates.


The selection of a suitable routing protocol is the prerequisite for adequate protection of the routing updates. RIP-2 (Routing Information Protocol Version 2, RFC 2453) and OSPF (Open Shortest Path First, RFC 1583) support passwords in their basic specification and can also use cryptographic checksums through extensions.



