#M 4.336 Activation of Windows systems as of Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

For a workable Windows system, Windows Vista or Windows Server 2008 requires the operating system to be installed and then a license activated. An only installed and not activated Windows Vista is not working after a grace period of 30 days. The Vista Client then forcibly falls into the so-called RFM (Reduced Functionality Mode). As of Windows Vista Service Pack 1, Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008, the manufacturer has withdrawn the RFM. Instead of the RFM, the systems now display corresponding warning messages.

Licenses for Windows Vista Enterprise, Windows 7 Enterprise, and Windows 8 Enterprise can only be obtained under a volume licensing agreement. Another condition is that the customer also concludes a so-called software assurance contract with Microsoft. Volume licensing agreements can also be concluded for the server operating systems. A volume license is a product key that allows an institution to enable the use of specific software for a specific number of clients.

Activation of Windows licenses from a volume licensing agreement is done through the Volume Activation Management Tool (VAMT). It is a stand-alone application that collects the activation requests from multiple computers bundled to Microsoft.



## Examples 
* MAK Proxy Activation (Multi Activation Key, Multiple Activation Key),
* MAK-independent activation and
* KMS Activation (Key Management Service, Key Management Service).




