#M 4.100 Security gateways and active content
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

One of the biggest problems with the design of a security gateway is the handling of the problems caused by the transfer of active content to the computers in the network to be protected. There are currently no viable programs that can provide similar detection of malicious code in ActiveX controls, Java applets, or scripting programs, as is possible with computer viruses.

The extent of the danger posed by active contents for the computers in the network to be protected can be illustrated by the following example: A Java applet or the browser may be used in accordance with the Java specifications establish a network connection to the server from which it has been loaded. This currently little used option is a key requirement when network computers (NC) or similar are to be used, which also have to load programs from the server without special initiation by the user. In order to be able to fully support this feature despite the use of a packet filter, many more ports must be enabled or a dynamic packet filter must be used. If so, Java applets can be used to build barely controllable IP connections.

The control of active content can be done in several ways:



## Examples 
* Does filtering of active content take place?
* Are requirements defined which active contents are classified as harmful?
* Does the implementation for filtering active content of classified content correspond to the security goals of the organization?
* Is an anti-virus product installed on the clients for protection against malware?
* Is a personal firewall set up on the active content protection clients?
* Are users aware of how to deal with active content?




