#M 4.229 Secure operation of smartphones, tablets and PDAs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Smart use of smartphones, tablets or PDAs generally requires pairing with other IT systems, such as the workstation, a device management or control server service, or a cloud service. The installation and configuration of the required hardware and software should be centrally controlled and carried out. Without appropriate tests and approvals, no installation should be done. For many smartphones and tablets, synchronization with cloud services is pre-set and almost automatic. It must be prevented that unintentionally data flows out to these services. This is to be checked in particular with each newly installed application. If necessary, appropriate countermeasures should be taken.

Security mechanisms and settings for mobile devices should be defined and documented in an understandable manner for the users to use the devices correctly. Therefore it is explicitly forbidden to change the configuration. In addition, users must be made aware of the purpose of the chosen settings. As far as technically possible, security mechanisms should be chosen and configured so that users have as little influence as possible. This is usually most easily accomplished through a centralized Mobile Device Management (MDM) solution. MDM solutions can enforce password policies, verify configurations, manage installed applications, and patch state Operating system and virus protection software. It is recommended to use an MDM solution, or at least to test whether this is the most efficient way to achieve the safe operation of smartphones, tablets and PDAs (see also M 4.230 Central Administration of Smartphones, Tablets and PDAs).

Smartphones, tablets and PDAs are usually unable to provide different user accounts. Therefore, there are generally no sophisticated role separation mechanisms. This means in particular that there are seldom areas that are only accessible to administrators. Users can not be easily prevented from making security-related configuration changes. This can only be achieved by appropriate regulations and sensitization of users. It is also helpful to check the settings regularly or to reset them to the specified values ??during synchronization by means of administration tools.

The security of all devices used for synchronization with the smartphone, tablet or PDA is essential for the security of the respective mobile device. If data or programs have been manipulated on the stationary terminals, they can be passed on to the smartphone, the tablet or the PDA without it being recognized.

The synchronization software should be configured to return a prompt to the user before installing any programs. The synchronization process should not run unnoticed. It should be logged, which programs and data were respectively transferred or updated and these logs should be checked at least sporadically for unusual entries.

For the selection and installation of applications, a suitable test and approval procedure must be implemented (see M 4.467 Selection of applications for smartphones, tablets and PDAs). If private smartphones, tablets, or PDAs are used by a business or company on an official basis, such procedures are, if anything, much harder to implement.

The security policy should specify what data and programs may be stored on smartphones, tablets or PDAs. This also depends on further security measures. For example, a tablet that stores only less valuable data has a different need for protection than a device that stores cryptographic keys and accessibility parameters for IT systems and networks.

There are malicious programs designed specifically for smartphones, tablets or PDAs. They read personal data, call chargeable service numbers or send SMS spam. Some malicious programs also specialize in relaying authentication information, such as the mobile TAN for online banking, to criminals. That's why most virus protection vendors have included virus scanners for smartphones, tablets or PDAs in their product range. In this context, the virus protection on the side of the terminals or service providers used for synchronization must not be forgotten. These must also be equipped with current anti-virus programs. This must apply in particular to private PCs or laptops with which the official terminal may also be synchronized.

When using internet services via smartphones, tablets or PDAs, every data connection to the institution must be encrypted, for example by a VPN. In addition, the e-mail client and web browser should be able to handle SSL and also encrypt it, for example for access to company or in-house servers. Some of the browsers available for mobile devices also support active content, ie Java, ActiveX and / or Javascript. As with other IT systems, it should also be noted that, depending on the nature of these programs, their execution may be associated with a security risk. Therefore, active content in the web browser should normally be switched off and only activated if it comes from a trusted source, ie. From the WWW pages of a known provider.

Since small and mobile devices are often lost, inventories must be created for use in an institution. They should contain at least the following information: identification features such as device numbers or inventory numbers, type of device, operating system, installation date and configuration specifics, site (if stationary), users and administrators.



