#M 4.374 Access protection of user accounts in Mac OS X.
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

On a Mac OS X client, user account settings must be adjusted to increase system security. For example, the help for passwords could be used by unauthorized persons to obtain information about the password. These adjustments can be made in the system settings under User.

The security of a user account against unauthorized access is highly dependent on the password used, so a strong password must be used. To do this, the recommendations in M 4.376 Setting password policies on Mac OS X must be implemented. Another important requirement for a secure user account is the disabling of password hints, which can be used by an attacker to obtain important hints about the password. Since the information in the help in the worst case match the actual password, this feature should be disabled. If a password reminder is still used, all users must be made aware of this potential danger. Also, the login window should not be displayed in the form of a list of all users, as an attacker will receive all information about existing users on the system. He then only needs the appropriate passwords to gain unauthorized access to the system. In any case, logging on to the system should not be automatic, but only possible with a username and password.

Alternatively, these restrictions can be implemented via command line for the currently logged-in user:

# No hint for passwords

defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow RetriesUntilHint -int 0

# Query of name and password in the login window, no display of name list

defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow SHOWFULLNAME -bool yes

# Disable restart, hibernate, and shutdown

defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow PowerOffDisable -bool yes

The above settings should be checked after each system update.



