#M 4.459 Use of encryption in cloud use
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

In principle, in the case of cloud use, it is necessary to distinguish between the encryption of data in the transport path (English: data in motion) and the encryption of data at its storage location (English: data at rest).

Encryption on the transport route is always required in connection with the use of cloud services, except that it is a cloud service of a private cloud, which is used over the secured local area network. Registration for a cloud service must be encrypted in any case, even in the case of the use of a private cloud. Defaults or recommendations can therefore be found in the service definition measures (see M 2.536 Service definition for cloud services by the user) and the contract design with the cloud service provider (see M 2.541 Contract drafting with the Cloud service provider). For this reason, this article does not go into more detail about the possibilities for implementing encryption in Motion and refers to M 5.66 Client-side use of SSL / TLSbzw. M 5.177 Server-side use of SSL / TLS referenced.

When encrypting the data at its storage or processing location, two variants must be distinguished. On the one hand, the encryption can be carried out in advance of a data transmission to the cloud service provider directly by the using institution. In the second variant, the encrypted data is encrypted only on the systems of the cloud service provider.

If the encryption is carried out by the cloud service provider, appropriate contractual provisions must be made for this, which include, among other things, guidelines for the selection of secure encryption mechanisms and the use of appropriate key sequences. In addition, it should be agreed that the cloud user can trigger the re-assignment of keys if necessary and he can influence the life cycles of the keys. It should be noted that encryption by the cloud service provider also carries responsibility for key management. Employees of the cloud service provider who have knowledge of the corresponding keys can thus access the data of the institution.

As an alternative to encrypting the data by the cloud service provider, depending on the cloud service, the institution may have the option of using its own encryption mechanisms. The secure key management is then in their hands. In this context, the use of so-called hardware security modules (HSM) to support secure generation and storage of the keys has proven to be helpful. When using an HSM, it does not matter where the encryption takes place, in the cloud or on the systems of the institution, the cloud service provider can not access the keys.

It should be noted that encryption by the institution is not always feasible. As a special feature in connection with the use of cloud services, the dependency on the service model used must be taken into account. For example, when using Software as a Service, encryption in conjunction with the use of applications through an API (for example, CRM database encryption) is often not possible. However, if encryption is required and the cloud service provider can not provide it, then depending on the cloud service, it is possible to resort to third party vendors offering such encryption. If an organization plans to use its own encryption mechanisms or uses a third-party provider, it is advisable to work closely with the cloud service provider to rule out any potential problems on the fly as early as possible.

When implementing this measure, the module B 1.7 Crypto concept must also be taken into account.



