#M 4.303 Use of mains-capable document scanners
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Document scanners can be used to digitize analogue information, for example, to copy, archive or further process a paper document on IT systems. Instead of installing a local scanner on every workstation PC, it is usually more economical to provide one or more central scanners, especially if such devices are rarely used. In order to select suitable security measures, a distinction must be made between scan PCs and network-capable document scanners.

A scan PC is a standard PC, which is generally connected to a LAN and to which a local scanner is connected. Scan PCs are often operated in similar facilities as network printers and can be used by various users as needed. In addition, scanning software usually also has the software required for post-processing the scanned information, such as OCR or image editing software.

Web-enabled document scanners (office scanners) are compact devices in which paper documents and the like can be read in without great effort and transmitted to the user for further processing via a LAN, for example by e-mail , This feature is often integrated with fax machines. The functionality of network-capable document scanners is usually much lower than with scan PCs. In general, only simple paper documents in standard formats can be read in, a follow-up directly to the device is usually not possible.



## Examples 
* Storage on network drives. The scanned documents are transferred directly to a file server via a network protocol. Normally, NFS and SMB shares or the transfer using FTP are supported. In principle, it must be ensured that the group of people who have access to the target directories with the scanned data is as small as possible. With increased protection, it may be necessary for only the user who scanned the information to access the scan results. Not all scanners make it possible to save the generated files in user-specific areas of the server. If only a general accessible directory can be selected, the documents must be deleted from these public directories as soon as possible. The users must be instructed accordingly. In addition, these directories should be automatically deleted once a day. The time of deletion must be disclosed to the users and chosen so that no users work with the scanners at these times.
* Scan-to-Mail: When scanning, the user has the option of specifying an e-mail address or a user ID to which an e-mail address is assigned. The generated file is transmitted to this e-mail address via a pre-set SMTP server. Since confidential information could leave the network anonymously, care should be taken that no external e-mail address can be entered. It is better to also configure the SMTP server in such a way that e-mails can not be sent to external e-mail addresses by the network-capable document scanners.
* Scan-to-Print: Here the document is sent directly to a printer, ie the scanner-printer combination is used as a digital copier. If both devices are physically separated from one another, there is a risk that the documents will be removed from the printer without authorization during scanning. Therefore, in this case, the systems should be configured as much as possible so that the printout will not take place until all pages of the respective document have been completely scanned. If not, too much time will pass between scanning the first page and collecting it from the printer.
* Scan-to-Fax: The Scan-to-Fax procedure allows you to send scanned documents directly by fax. For this, a fax number is specified during scanning. The generated document is then either sent via an integrated modem, or the scanner establishes a connection to a fax server via the LAN. When using scanners that have built-in fax, modem or DF interfaces In addition, special security measures must be taken to ensure that no unwanted communication links are established with external networks via these interfaces. Corresponding recommendations are described in measure M 5.146 Network separation when using multifunctional devices. If possible, a central fax server should act as an interface between the scanner and the telephone network. In this case, in particular the measure recommendations listed in module B 5.6 Fax server are to be applied.




