#M 4.26 Regular security check of the Unix system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Unix operating systems offer different security features by default. However, these can only lead to success if used wisely. The necessary settings should be checked automatically with the help of tools

* Detect and eliminate inconsistencies within a Unix system and
* to enable the system administrator to manage the Unix operating system, making optimum use of the given security mechanisms.


This check can be done with existing programs in the Unix system, self-made shell scripts or public domain programs. For some Unix variants, commercial programs are also available.



## Examples 
* pwckThis command is standard operating system commands. This command performs a consistency check on the / etc / passwd file. It is checked whether all necessary entries have been made, if the login directory exists for the user and if the login program exists. Similar functions on Solaris include the command logins, which can also be used to find accounts without a password.
* grpckThis command performs a consistency check on the / etc / group file. It also belongs to the standard operating system commands. It is checked whether all necessary entries have been made, if all members of a group are also present in the user password file and if the group number matches the one specified there.
* tripwireThis program can perform integrity checks on files. For this purpose, checksums are formed over files and stored in a database. tripwire is available in several free versions.
* copsThis public domain program is used to verify the security of Unix systems, such as: For example, various system settings, access rights, SUID files etc. are checked and potential security gaps are shown.
* animal With this public domain program, Unix systems can be checked for security gaps similar to cops.
* SATANWith this public domain program, network security can be analyzed. It checks networked Unix systems for known but often unresolved vulnerabilities.
* crackThis public domain program verifies that there are too easy, easily guessable passwords.




