#M 4.500 Secure deployment of systems for identity and entitlement management
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

Systems for identity and authorization management are integrated IT systems with which the digital identities for all systems in an IT infrastructure can be largely automated in a planned and targeted manner. Such a system should processally cover all operations related to the creation, deletion and modification of privileges and user identifications. These include:

* Identittsverwaltung
* role management
* Administration and maintenance of user IDs and authorizations: create, change and delete


* Policy management


Technically, an identity and entitlement management system consists of a data holding component (database), a workflow (authorization release etc.) and an interface solution (directory services etc.) to set permissions. The individual components must be adequately protected, see the specific modules, eg. B.B 1.15 deleting and destroying data).

An identity and authorization management system can be structured differently, for example

* central (all identities concentrated in one place)
* federal (decentralized distribution of identities   beyond the boundaries of the institution)


To reduce the administration and maintenance costs, suitable user and rights management tools are helpful. In addition, automated application and award procedures are recommended for setting up authorizations, as many approval steps are often required, which must be collected and tracked.

Centralized tools for identity and entitlement management are a popular target, as tampering would make access to many systems and information possible. Often, tools for identity and entitlement management are so complex that it is difficult to detect a successful attack. Therefore, it is important to specify rules to be followed in the event of a genuine or suspected attack (see B 1.8 Handling security incidents). In the case of central identity and authorization management systems, where permanent access is required for the authorization check, measures must also be taken for emergency management (see M 6.166 Emergency Preparedness for Identity and Authorization Management) -System).



