#M 4.224 Integration of VPN components in a security gateway
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

For the security of a VPN, the integration of the VPN endpoints into the security gateways is essential. The optimal placement of the VPN components depends on several factors:

* Protection requirements of the VPN gateway against attacks from the non-trustworthy network
* The need to control and flow control of the data transfer of access from the non-trusted network to systems and services in the trusted network
* Protection requirement of the transmitted data


The best known protocols for establishing VPNs are IPSec, TLS / SSL, PPTP and L2TP. Therefore, in the following, such VPNs are considered. However, the recommendations presented here can also be applied to most other procedures. The decision for a specific procedure depends on the application and the field of application. It may well be useful for an institution to run multiple VPNs with different VPN protocols and cryptographic methods.

The decision as to which procedures should be used and how the individual VPN components should be arranged must be documented.



## Examples 
* VPN gateways with one interface: If the attack potential is high, the VPN gateway should be protected by a packet filter at the Application Level Gateway (ALG). The outer packet filter protects against IP spoofing attacks because incoming packets from the non-trusted network with the IP address of the VPN gateway are not forwarded by the outer packet filter as the sender address. The decrypted traffic must pass through the ALG and the inner packet filter en route to the trusted network. Since decrypted connections are only allowed at the DMZ interface of the ALG and not at the interface of the ALG to the non-trustworthy network, an unauthorized connection from the non-trustworthy network is made considerably more difficult than the preceding variants.




