#M 4.198 Installation of an application in a chroot cage
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

To increase security, an application can be installed in a so-called chroot cage. The system call chroot () under Unix limits the access of a particular application to a part of the file tree. This happens because all accesses that this application and the applications it invokes to the file system are relative to the directory specified when the chroot () function was called. The directory becomes the root of a virtual file tree called chroot-k fig or chroot jail. Overlying directories and files can not be accessed. Thus, for example, several services on a server can be isolated from each other.



In addition to the system call chroot (), an executable program of the same name is also available, which can be used to start any application in such a chroot cage. For example, if an attacker succeeds in executing their own program code in the process space of the application, the immediate damage would be limited by the attacker not having direct access to the actual operating system. There are ways to break out of a chroot cage. An attacker must first realize that he is in a chroot cage. This will delay an attack. During this time, the attack may be detected and countermeasures initiated.

The chroot-K fig must contain copies of all files, which are necessary for the execution of the application. Which files they are must be checked against the existing documentation. Normally, these are the following files and directories: dev, lib, usr / bin, var, var / run, etc, and the application-specific files and directories.

When considering installing an application in a chroot cage, sufficient time must be devoted to planning and testing. During the installation must be documented

* which is the root directory of the chroot cage and
* which operating system components are provided in the chroot-K fig.


In particular, some device files have to be created in the chroot-K fig, furthermore, adapted versions of the files / etc / passwd and / etc / group are required. From these files, all unused entries should be removed except for the user and the group under which the application is to be run. Depending on the operating system, other entries that should remain in the files may be required.



