#M 4.157 Setting Access Permissions on Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The directory service eDirectory usually stores a lot of sensitive company and user data. It is therefore imperative to make this information available only to authorized applications, users and administrators. For this purpose, it is necessary to consistently and consistently implement a previously created security policy that must contain rules for access authorizations (see M .2.238 Defining a Security Policy for Novell eDirectory).

Rights are assigned to eDirectory via Access Control Lists (ACLs). Access authorizations can be assigned both at the object and at the attribute level. The following object rights (or privileges) are available: Browse, Create, Delete, Rename and Supervisor. Attribute rights are: Compare, Read, Add or Delete Self, Write, Supervisor and Inheritance Control. In principle, rights can only be granted in a positive sense, ie. the access is explicitly allowed. An explicit exclusion of a user by means of an access list can not be defined.



Access permissions are explicitly assigned through so-called trustee assignments. For a target object it is entered which other objects can access it, ie. Trustees of this target object are. Conversely, one can also assume the view of an accessing object and thus read which target objects this object is allowed to access.

Access permissions are inherited according to the tree hierarchy of the directory service. However, this initially only applies to the object rights, the attribute rights inherit only if this is explicitly configured. The automatic inheritance of access permissions of objects to their child objects can be regulated by the configuration of so-called masks or Inherited Rights Filter (IRF). This allows the inheritance of access permissions to be restricted. Since own attribute values ??can be changed via the self-right, it is critical from a security point of view and should also be checked with the help of the filter.



When the directory tree is partitioned, there is initially a gap in the inheritance chain, which, however, is closed automatically by appending an inherited ACL.

Another way to assign access permissions to eDirectory objects is to assign a so-called security equivalence of an object to another object. It can thus be defined that at least the same access options exist on object X as on object Y. All trustees of object Y automatically become trustees of object X.



Effective in an attempt to access the so-called effective rights, d.h. those access authorizations which result according to the above-mentioned mechanisms as the final result. These effective rights are dynamically computed or held in the server's cache each time they are accessed. The administrator can use the management console ConsoleOne to display these currently valid effective rights to individual objects.

An important aspect when assigning rights in eDirectory is the configuration of users and user groups (organizational roles). By properly defining the user and administrator groups, the assignment of rights can be made more transparent and easier. This is to be recommended, since generally a high complexity in the administration increases the danger by misconfiguration. For simplified and consistent configuration of users and user groups (Organizational Roles), templates should be used.

eDirectory allows role- and function-based administration. For this purpose, so-called RBS objects (Role Based Service) are defined, followed by RBS job objects and RBS function objects. This requires a schema extension of the directory service. The RBS function objects are used to define the tasks that can be performed by members of an assigned user group (administrator group). This also allows the delegation of administration tasks.

If two or more eDirectory trees are merged into a single tree, the resulting effective rights must then be controlled. This also has to be taken into account when moving partitions within an eDirectory tree. Likewise, the access permissions must be controlled and possibly reconfigured if z. B. a Windows NT domain was migrated to an eDirectory tree through migration.



