#M 4.347 Disabling snapshots of virtual IT systems
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

The ability to freeze the state of virtual IT systems at a specific time during operation and to preserve this state as long as desired, in which it is stored, for example, on a hard disk, is a technical feature of virtual IT systems. If such a state can be stored and the system continues thereafter, it is also possible to restore the system to the stored state. Such a state is called snapshot on most virtualization products. This procedure can be used for a variety of administration tasks. For example, after a failed update, you can easily downgrade to the previous version. Even basic functions of a virtual infrastructure, such as the migration of guest systems between virtualization servers via LiveMigration, vMotion or XenMotion, are based on the ability to create snapshots. This also applies to the high-availability mechanisms linked to it.

Therefore, the following aspects should be considered when using such snapshots:



## Examples 
* Is it ensured that the scope of the snapshots as well as the necessary work steps for handling snapshots are evaluated and documented for all virtual IT systems with non-deactivated snapshot functionality?
* Is the ability to create snapshots or freeze the system disabled for virtual IT systems where integrity or confidentiality threats have very serious consequences?




