#M 4.148 Monitoring a Windows 2000 / XP system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, auditor

The monitoring of computer systems is an important means of maintaining system security and system integrity. This is the only way to detect possible security gaps, violations of the applicable security guidelines or even attacks by external and internal devices and to initiate suitable countermeasures.

The monitoring of a Windows 2000 / XP system must be taken into account in the planning phase, so that the relevant parameters can be determined according to the requirements. In order to be monitored under Windows 2000 / XP, this must first be activated in general. This is especially true for file and registry monitoring. The activation and configuration of the monitoring components is carried out via the following group policy parameters:



## Examples 
* The data protection officer and the personnel and / or works council should be involved in the planning in due time, as most of the time personal data is also collected in order to be able to ascertain the responsible person in case of a security breach.
* For the  control component to generate log entries,  monitoring   must be activated via the relevant group policy settings.
* Windows 2000 / XP provides only one protocol functionality for monitoring: System components and applications generate status messages, which are collected in three log files (system, application and security log). There is no dedicated auditing architecture for online monitoring. The log files are stored locally and must essentially be evaluated by hand.
* The construction of a central collection point of log files with correspondingly automated evaluation can be achieved by products from third-party manufacturers. If a tool for network and system management is used (see also module B 4.2 Network and system management), it is possible - depending on the product - to import the Windows 2000 / XP protocols directly into this tool.
* The Windows 2000 / XP Auditing settings can record access to files or registry keys in the security log.




