#M 4.284 Handling services as of Windows Server 2003
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Services are run under Windows under the security context of certain accounts (so-called service accounts). Accesses to resources are made using the service account, much like a user with a user account. Once started, services remain active in principle, so the corresponding service account remains permanently logged in or the application is renewed regularly by the central service control. Servers are usually mission-critical services. Service accounts are therefore more exposed than normal user accounts. If service interdependencies exist, even a compromised, seemingly less important service can crash a mission-critical service. For these reasons, services and service accounts should be administered in compliance with special rules.

* Service accounts should never use the built-in administrator account.
* Each service should run with its own service account.


A compromised high-level service account can be more easily isolated if it is not used for multiple services. In practice, server applications may run a group of services in the context of the same account. In this case, it has to be considered on a case-by-case basis whether this is compatible with the protection requirements of the system and to what extent different service accounts can be allocated without adversely affecting the desired functionality.

Exceptions are the special, predefined accounts NT AUTHORITY / LocalService and NT AUTHORITY / NetworkService. They are managed by internal service control and provide each service with an isolated security context. The authentication is regulated system-internally by the service control. Password entries are ignored.

* Each service account should have only the minimum required permissions.


Therefore, the predefined accounts NT AUTHORITY / LocalService for locally acting services and NT AUTHORITY / NetworkService for services with network access should be considered as a priority. By default, they have the same privileges as the predefined Authenticated Users group (normal users).

Windows Server 2008 R2 introduced two special accounts: the managed service account and the virtual account.

* Managed service accounts are domain managed accounts managed by Windows Server 2008 R2 that provide automatic password management. In addition, classes of domain accounts can be created, which can be delegated to non-administrators for administrative tasks. This type of account is typically used to manage applications such as SQL Server or IIS.
* Virtual accounts are local accounts managed on Windows Server 2008 R2. These passwords do not require password management. Within a domain, the login to resources of the network takes place with the computer identity.


Unlike previously used accounts for managing services such as local, network, or local, the managed service account can be centrally managed because it resides in the Managed Service Accounts OU within Active Directory.

It should be noted that the new function of the service accounts on the system to be managed requires Windows Server 2008 R2. Only one managed service account can be used per system. In addition, the domain must be in the so-called Windows Server 2008 R2 mode for full use of the functions (Dom nenfunktionsebene). For domains that are in Windows Server 2003 or 2008 mode, additional configuration may be required.

Up to and including Windows Server 2008, local accounts are preferable to domain accounts. If domain accounts are used, they should be equipped with as few domain authorizations as possible, and appropriate availability of domain controllers should be ensured. Service accounts should be denied local logon (Home | Control Panel | Administrative Tools | Local Security Policy | Local Policies | User Rights Assign | Log On Locally or in a Domain Group Policy). As of Windows Server 2008 R2, the administration account for service accounts should use the previously mentioned accounts managed service account and the virtual account.

* As a rule of thumb, applications with administrator-level services must operate on their own server. The higher the number of such applications on a server, the lower the achievable security level. Examples include backup servers or domain controllers, which can only perform their core services with full administrative privileges.
* The default accounts for services included in Windows should not be changed.
* Unnecessary or potentially dangerous services should be disabled.
* Many scripts and other executable files can be installed and run as a service. This is normally not a recommended procedure.
* In individual cases it has to be clarified how the behavior of processes (scripts or programs) executed as a service influences system stability and security. For example, stopping the service or restarting the service can result in corrupted data because the process can not respond to such events but is simply deleted. The use of such a method should have been tested in a test environment. Consideration should be given to setting strong system access control list (SACL) for the service accounts to detect unforeseen behavior.
* For passwords of service accounts the usual definitions for user identifiers are partly unsuitable. The following table shows an example of the default settings after installation. Therefore, the service accounts must have their own password policy that is consistent with the organization's security policies. Password policy Default setting on domain controllers Service account capability Password history 24jaMaximum password age (in days) 42ImpairedMinimum password age (in days) 1jaMinimum password length 7Not sufficient password must be set Complexity requirements? Enabled YesSave passwords with reversible encryption Disabled Yes


The password should have a two-digit password length (up to 127 characters are possible). It must not expire automatically (option password never expires in the properties of the account), but should be changed during regular maintenance cycles. A procedure for changing the passwords should be defined and the passwords stored securely, see M 2.22 Storing the password. With a larger number of services and servers, it can be very expensive to change and deposit passwords (including functional tests of the services) so that the security gain may no longer be available. Service account password management utilities can provide assistance, but they also present a risk. The maximum age of passwords and the procedure for managing them should be determined based on the level of protection and effort required Be documented.

documentation

For all services that do not run with a predefined account, the service accounts and their authorizations must be noted.



