#M 4.291 Secure configuration of the VoIP middleware
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The function and security of the VoIP middleware is essentially determined by the set configuration parameters. Very often, several independent VoIP components, such as gatekeepers and gateways, are needed. The non-coordinated change of a configuration parameter in one component can therefore lead to malfunctions in interaction with the other components.

The administrators responsible for the VoIP components must be able to make numerous other changes after commissioning. If employees leave the agency or the company or new ones are added, changes must be made. Even when switching to another network segment, for example by moving to another building, adjustments may have to be made. Therefore, a configuration interface should be chosen that administrators can use to make these adjustments efficiently.

As a rule, employees are assigned a user name and password for VoIP use. When using VoiceMails, an e-mail address can be entered here. It is important to ensure that users choose passwords that are not too short or easy to guess. Settings that accept only secure passwords should be enabled. Users who only have stationary devices with a consistent IP address should only log in with the device that has been assigned this IP address.

When assigning a user name and telephone number, any existing internal specifications must be observed. Assigning phone numbers that are not assigned to a user plays another role. An example of this is the freely accessible telephones in conference rooms for visitors. In principle, these telephone connections should receive as few privileges as possible. In general, the limitation that only internal callers can be called is acceptable and sufficient.

Often it can be determined which user is allowed to use which signaling protocols. If possible, all users should only use one protocol as this reduces the administrative overhead. If the terminals support encrypted signaling protocols, care should be taken to ensure that an unsigned login is not possible.

Users of the TC system can be assigned or revoked certain rights (privileges). For example, the right can be curtailed to call abroad or paid service numbers. During configuration, the goal must be to ensure that each user receives only the privileges intended for them.

Small, self-developed and adapted to the circumstances macros can simplify the configuration of the administrators. These macros are to be documented in detail. When using the macros, it must be ensured that they have been subjected to a comprehensive quality assurance and thoroughly tested prior to use. Otherwise, for example, there is a risk that such macros may produce hard-to-find configuration deficiencies or unwanted side-effects.

During the configuration, care must be taken to ensure that additional and not mandatory services are deactivated or remain. Otherwise, there is a danger that these services will be exploited for attacks.

Numerous events can be logged. By way of example, the signaling information can be used to evaluate which user has been using whom to whom to make a call for how long. If the media information is not exchanged directly between the terminals but via the middleware, a central evaluation of the call content is basically possible. On the one hand, logging functions can contribute to the comprehensibility of the VoIP operation. On the other hand, it must be prevented that logging functions for breaches of information security or data protection are abused.

It must therefore be determined systematically and bindingly, which information is logged and how the regular evaluation of the log data is carried out. In each case, the data protection officer and the personnel or works council must be involved. If discrepancies occur during the evaluation, they must be examined more closely and the causes possibly eliminated.

All settings are to be checked by a regular revision.



