#M 4.412 Secure migration from Windows Server 2003 to Server 2008
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Migrating from Windows Server 2003 to Server 2008 requires careful planning first. To do this, first define the migration strategy:

* During a new installation, the data from the old IT system is saved, a new (current) IT system is installed on the same hardware, and the services are rebuilt using the saved data. This variant is associated with downtime during the migration and requires high planning effort. There is a risk of prolonged downtime in the event of unforeseen problems.
* In a so-called in-place update, an update of the system software is initiated from the running system. There are a number of risks associated with this variant, including the ability to handle legacy configuration issues, productivity failures during the upgrade, and the risk of a failed update.
* In a real migration, the new system will be installed on new hardware in parallel with the legacy system, and then the productive services will be moved from the legacy system to the new system.


The third scenario provides the best protection against production or data loss, but requires the availability of additional hardware to set up the new IT system in parallel. In particular, because of the better test options, this migration scenario should be chosen as a priority.



## Examples 
* The time required for the migration, taking into account the impact on productive services on the migrated system or other dependent systems, must be taken into account.




