#M 4.467 Selection of applications for smartphones, tablets and PDAs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Applications (apps for short) for smartphones, tablets and PDAs are generally distributed through online shops of the terminal or operating system manufacturers. In the regular shops, applications are offered by both large companies and individual developers. The prices for the applications are very different and range from free to multi-digit range. As a rule, many applications are available for a business purpose.

In addition, there are still some online stores that are usually accessed only by detours by either a jailbreak (iPhone and iPad) is carried out or Android in the settings, the installation of unknown sources is allowed. A jailbreak should never be performed and the installation from unknown sources should only be possible after a thorough examination of the source for individual applications.

Applications for smartphones, tablets and PDAs must be selected according to the intended use of these devices and the protection requirement of the information on the terminal device and tested before use. Therefore, theIT operation should create a list of desired functions and properties before installation. In addition, criteria must be defined that applications should under no circumstances possess. This includes, for example, the unauthorized sending of the address book to address handlers. The guidelines should be used to scrutinize candidate applications for user comments and testing by other agencies to determine if they are working reliably and if security updates are available in a timely manner. Then the respective applications should be tested and checked by the IT-operation and only then be rolled out to the users. It should be considered to provide an internal shop for applications through which the applications can be obtained.

If there are no applications that meet the quality or safety requirements, the applications themselves must be developed. For this, the module B 5.25 General applications must be taken into account. Depending on the license of an application, it is also possible to adapt it to your own needs and, for example, disable critical program calls, such as to advertising servers, sending the address book, groundless GPS localization. This can be an inexpensive alternative to in-house development.

If users want more applications that are not or not just for business purposes, there should be consistent rules for them as well. If these programs, z. B.Card games or sudoku, which do not endanger information security and are paid by the employee, the application can be usually allowed. If this is not the case, the employee must make the decision plausible, so that it is not bypassed.



