#M 4.487 Tamper protection (detection, prevention, defense) in embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, administrator, planner

For embedded systems, a tamper protection concept must be planned and implemented with a high protection requirement for confidentiality or integrity.

A comprehensive tamper protection consists of the three functional areas prevention, detection and detection and reaction and defense. The specialist literature mostly uses the English terms tamper resistance, tamper evidence and tamper response. Tamper protection can affect infrastructure elements, hardware and software. In the latter case, cryptographic mechanisms are used (see M 4.483 Use of cryptographic processors or coprocessors (Trusted Platform Module) in embedded systems, M 4.90 Use of cryptographic methods on the various layers of the ISO / OSI reference model).

To prevent tamper attacks on infrastructure elements and hardware, it is necessary to create a tamper resistant system that can not be altered unauthorized due to its design. In the event that an attacker can freely dispose of a system, complete protection is not possible. However, through structural and technical precautions, the obstacles to be overcome for him can be set very high. Implementing such a system can be costly and the result may be a complicated, less flexible system. Therefore, before taking this route, it should be analyzed and assessed which effort is necessary and useful due to the protection needs of the system. Various construction elements can help to increase the security against burglary. Examples include special screws such as Torx-TR, with a center-tapped screw that prevents this screw from rotating with a standard torx or slot screwdriver, or sheaths, protective layers, and passive or active metal lines. Embedded systems can also be structurally linked to an environment in such a way that they are very difficult to remove and would not be transportable together with the environment, eg. B. by metal or concrete.

It is much more complex to make arrangements that detect and document burglary (tamper evidence). These make it possible to automatically detect modifications to a system or to confirm the correctness of a system by external examiners. Examples of such mechanisms are seals and seals, actively driven metal lines with sensors that respond to light, pressure or resistance and capacitance changes.

In response to a tamper response, an alarm may be sent to a higher level management unit. In addition, sensitive data of the system should be deleted as far as possible automatically. Depending on the protection needs of the data, different options should be considered. The energy supply of the RAM can easily be interrupted, but an attacker with appropriate equipment and expertise could reconstruct the data. In addition, this only affects part of the data of an embedded system. A common method is to override the RAM several times. Often it is first written over several times with 0, then several times with 1. The disadvantage of this method is that it can not be guaranteed that this process actually takes place when the device or its power supply is impaired. The safest thing is to physically destroy the device. This can be. B. caused by a Thermitreaktion.



