#M 4.23 Safe access to executable files
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Executable files can be started directly. In contrast, application data, such as text files, can only be viewed via a corresponding program. Under Windows, executable files are recognizable by their file extension (for example .exe, .com, .vbs, .bat, .cmd) and under Unix by file permissions (x-flag).

It must be ensured that only released versions of executable files and no modified versions (in particular Trojan horses) are called up (see M 2.9 Non-released hardware and software usage).

An attacker could change an executable file to the extent that it receives the privileges of the user executing the file. To prevent this, executable files must be readable only. Write access may only be granted to administrators.

Executable files are required for write access, eg. because they are under development, they should only be used in separate areas. The same applies to new software that is to be tested for later use on a production system. For example, separate test systems or special user accounts without additional privileges can be used. Only then can it be prevented that these applications cause damage.

Even tested software can compromise security. This especially affects very complex applications such as web servers. Already at the start of applications, it must be ensured that each process receives only as many rights as absolutely necessary. Thus, in a successful attack, the incoming damage can be limited. These services may not be started with administrator privileges, if possible. User accounts with restricted privileges are also suitable for this purpose. Clear divisions of rights, on Unix or Linux, for example, through chroot environments that can limit the onset of damage, must be considered.

In addition, it must be ensured that only the desired, released version can be executed. An attacker could otherwise copy a modified file with the same name to a directory to which he has write access. If the file is searched for in the directories when called, the modified file instead of the desired one could be executed.

In many operating systems, the directories in which to search for the executable files are entered in the appropriate order in the PATH variable. The number of specified directories should be kept small and manageable. Relative directories that contain the current working directory may not be included in the PATH variable. Executable files should only be stored in designated directories. In the directories contained in a PATH variable, only the respective owner may be given write access. This must be checked regularly.



