#M 4.389 Partitioning and Replication in OpenLDAP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The division of parts of a directory service to different servers (partitioning) is an effective way to achieve greater availability through load sharing. To ensure that the directory copies are up-to-date, changes to the data must be exchanged between the servers through replication. Which replication mode is appropriate must be chosen based on network connections and availability requirements.

In this measure the possible implementation of these concepts with OpenLDAP is described, for the general planning of partitioning and replication see measure M 2.409 Planning of partitioning and replication in the directory service.



## Examples 
* The consumer must be installed (see M 4.383 Secure Installation of OpenLDAP) and configured (see M 4.384 Secure Configuration of OpenLDAP). This can and should be done as far as possible by transmitting copies of the provider configuration to the provider. In the case of consumer configuration, it is particularly important that the same schemas are set up on the consumer as on the provider.
* On the consumer, the database directive syncrepl must be set up for the database to be replicated. The sub-directives searchbase, filter, scope and attrs can be used to determine what should be replicated. For example, in addition to the entire directory service, only partial trees or even certain attributes of objects can be replicated. When setting up, it should be noted that in the case of online configuration, the configuration suffix CN = config can also be replicated. Further subdirectories determine the address of the provider, replication-specific settings to secure the communication between consumer and provider, the replication method and the connection to the provider, if it is aborted (refreshAndPersist) or the provider can not be reached (refreshOnly).
* In particular, the sub directive schemachecking is pointed out. If schema-matching is deactivated (which corresponds to the default value), replication can also insert data that is actually inadmissible according to the schemas. This may be useful (especially for partial replicas), but it may limit the integrity of the replicas.
* Although the settings for replication are mainly made on the consumer, the provider must also be configured for correct replication. In order to be able to answer search queries of the consumer depending on a change in time, the provider must remember any changes made himself or keep an overview of current time stamps, so-called context change sequence numbers (contextCSNs). This is achieved by calling the overlay syncprov (Sync Provider).
* To fill the consumer database for the first time, it is recommended that only the required data records from a data backup of the provider be imported (see M 6.150 Data backup when using OpenLDAP), as a complete transmission of all directory service contents   It takes time and resources unnecessarily over the network. Because syncrepl has data reconciliation mechanisms, it is not necessary for the backup in use to be up-to-date. When importing a backup that does not yet contain any contextCSNs, specify the -w parameter if the database is populated with slapadd for contextCSNs to be generated. This will be the case in particular for a first replication since the provider was usually not yet prepared for such an operation and the syncprov overlay was not yet called.




