#M 4.63 Safety requirements for the teleworking computer
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The safety requirements for the telework computers are based on the protection requirements of the data to be processed at the teleworkstation and the data that teleworkers can access via the institution's communication computer. The higher the need for protection, the more measures must be taken to ensure this protection. General security goals for teleworkers are:

* Teleworking computers may only be used by authorized persons. This ensures that only authorized persons can use the data and programs that are stored on a teleworking computer or that can be accessed via the communication computer. Authorized persons are the administrator of the teleworking computer and the teleworker and his deputy.
* Teleworkers may only be used for authorized purposes. This will help ensure that teleworkers do not use or alter the computers unauthorized. For example, no unauthorized programs may be installed. This prevents damage caused by operating errors and misuse.
* Deterioration due to theft or malfunction of a telework computer must be tolerable. Work calculators are typically used in a less secure environment so that a theft or malfunction is more likely than in the protected operating environment of an institution. This can not only affect the availability but also the confidentiality of the stored data. In order to keep the damage at thefts low, z. B. the data is only encrypted stored. To limit damage caused by defects, z. For example, regular data backups are carried out.
* Attempts made or made on the teleworking computer should be recognizable to the teleworker. This ensures that the teleworker remains in an integrity state, even if manipulation attempts can not be ruled out.


From the protection requirement of the data to be processed at the teleworkstation, the security goals and thus the safety requirements for the teleworking computers are derived. It must be documented which of the safety-relevant functionalities described in the following must have a teleworking computer and how these are to be implemented.

The following functionalities are therefore useful for a teleworking computer:

* The teleworking computer must have an identification and authentication mechanism. In particular, the following points must be ensured: Safety-critical parameters, such as passwords, user ID, etc., must be managed securely. Passwords may never be stored unencrypted on the teleworking computer. The access procedure must respond in a defined manner to incorrect entries. If, for example, faulty authentication occurs three times in succession, the access to the teleworking computer is to be blocked or, alternatively, the time intervals after which a further access attempt is permitted to be increased successively. The setting of certain minimum specifications for the safety-critical parameters must be possible. Thus, the minimum length of a password should be eight characters. After a temporary inactivity of the keyboard or mouse, a screen lock must be activated automatically, which is only deactivated after re-identification and authentication.
* The teleworking computer must have an access control. In particular, the following requirements have to be implemented: The teleworking computer must be able to differentiate between different users. It must be possible to set up at least two separate roles on the teleworking computer, namely administrator and teleworker. Using a differentiated legal structure (read, write, execute, ...), access to files and programs must be controllable.
* Teleworkers should have logging. It makes sense to implement the following requirements: The minimum scope that the teleworking computer should log should be configurable. For example, the following actions including the occurred error cases should be logged: for authentication: user ID, date and time, result of the login attempt, etc.for access control: user ID, date and time, result of the access attempt, type of access, what has been changed, how are read, written, etc. performed by administrators, occurrence of functional errors. Logging should not be disabled by unauthorized persons. The logs themselves may not be readable or modifiable by unauthorized persons. Logging must be clear, complete and correct.
* If the teleworking computer is to have a protocol evaluation, the following requirements may make sense: An evaluation function must be able to distinguish between the types of data required during logging (eg filtering of all unauthorized access to all resources in a given period). The evaluation function must generate reportable (readable) reports, so that no safety-critical activities are overlooked.
* Teleworking computers should have data backup functions. These should u. a. meet the following requirements: The backup program must be user friendly and fast. It should be automatable. It has to be configurable which data is backed up and when. There has to be an option for importing any data backups. The function must allow saving of several generations. Data backups of intermediate results from the running application should be possible ,
* Telework computers should have a encryption component. For this, it is first of all necessary to decide which functionality is required: the encryption of selected data (offline) or automatically the entire hard disk (online). In principle, the automatic encryption of all data media should be preferred, since this is more user-friendly and more efficient. This presupposes that a suitable encryption product is used and that data loss in the event of a malfunction (power failure, abortion of the encryption) is intercepted by the system. In addition, the following requirements make sense: The implemented encryption algorithm should correspond to the requirements of M 2.164 Selection of a suitable cryptographic method. The key management must harmonize with the functionality of the teleworking computer. In particular, fundamental differences of the algorithms have to be taken into account: symmetric methods use a secret key for encryption and decryption, asymmetric methods use a public key for the encryption encryption and a private (secret) for decryption. The teleworking computer must securely manage the security-critical parameters such as keys. Thus, keys (even those that are no longer used) should never be left unprotected, ie readable, on the telework computer.
* If the teleworking computer is to have mechanisms for checking integrity, the following requirements make sense: Methods should be used to check integrity, deliberate manipulation of the teleworking computer or the data stored on it, and unauthorized application of programs In data transmission mechanisms must be used to detect deliberate manipulation of the address fields and the payload. In addition, the mere knowledge of the algorithms used without special additional knowledge may not be sufficient to make unrecognized manipulations of the above-mentioned data.
* The telework calculator should have boot protection to prevent unauthorized access to removable media, such as removable media. B.DVD or USB stick, can be booted (see M 4.4 Appropriate handling of drives for removable media and external data storage).
* It should be possible to limit the user environment of the teleworking computer. The administrator should be able to specify which programs the teleworker can perform, which peripheral devices can be used and which changes the teleworker may make to the system. In addition, the teleworker settings that are necessary for safe operation should not change unauthorized and not allowed to play third-party software without permission.
* The teleworking computer must have a resident computer virus testing program installed to continuously check the computer for computer viruses (see M 4.3 Using virus protection programs). Before importing data from removable media, before transferring data media or when sending and receiving data, a virus check must be carried out (see also M 4.33 Using a Virus Scanning Program for Data Exchange and Data  transfer).
* If the teleworking computer is to be administered via remote maintenance, it must be ensured that remote administration can only be carried out in an authorized way. For remote maintenance, authentication of the remote maintenance personnel, encryption of the transmitted data and logging of the administration processes must be ensured.
* The software on a teleworking computer should be user-friendly. It should be easy to use, understandable and easy to learn because teleworkers are more on their own than other employees. In particular, users should be provided with meaningful and comprehensible documentation of the operating system and all installed programs.


From the above functionalities, those that are required due to the security requirements of the telework computers must be selected. Based on these functionalities, a suitable operating system must be selected as a platform. If this does not support all the required functionality, additional products must be used. As far as possible, all teleworkers of an institution should be equipped equally to facilitate care and maintenance. For safety-related suitability testing module B 1.10 standard software should be considered.

The overall system must be configured by the administrators in such a way that maximum security can be achieved.



