#M 4.366 Secure configuration of mobile user profiles in terminal server environments
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to provide applications for a larger number of users, multiple terminal servers are often used in a network. This is also referred to as terminal server farm.

The scenario mentioned here creates some specific security requirements for the user profiles. User profiles store individual user settings, terminal configurations (for example, for printers) and, if necessary, user-created files for each user.

In the case of terminal servers, it is usually not possible for users to predict with which terminal servers they will establish a session. The management services of the respective terminal server solutions regulate this automatically, usually taking into account the utilization of the individual servers in the farm.

If the user logs on, his individual profile is loaded from this server. If no appropriate precautions have been taken, this is the profile stored locally on the server. If the user now logs off and on again, it is very likely that a connection is established with another terminal server and a new local user profile is created as well. The settings and files stored on the first terminal server can only be accessed by the user when he accidentally connects to this server.

At this point it becomes clear that a central filing of the files on a file server is necessary with the employment of terminal server farms, if changes of the user are to be kept within its profile. This method of storing the profile data is also referred to as a mobile profile.

However, it should be noted that in application scenarios that directly access individual applications rather than a full user interface (desktop), this may not be necessary or desirable.

When using Windows servers, the selection of mobile user profiles, also known as roaming profiles, has some disadvantages. As a result, the user has many options for changing the appearance and behavior of his user session as intended. However, it is also very easy for the user to make the session profile unusable. In addition, a profile configured in this way grows very quickly in size. It then takes a long time to load from the file server at each logon, thus increasing the network and server load as well.

Therefore, it is recommended to use so-called mandatory profiles, which increase the speed of the terminal server and prevent users from being inadvertently excluded from using it.

This profile type can also be stored on a remote server, however, files created and changes to settings are only saved for the duration of the session. Appropriately created batch programs (scripts) can be used to save specific components of the profile (eg newly created documents) on the file server before final closing.

In addition, a limitation on the size of the profile should be given administratively in order to prevent an increase beyond a tolerable level.



