#M 4.386 Limitation of attributes in OpenLDAP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The slapd server can use overlays to enforce restrictions without having to customize or create schemas. Such limitations are useful to improve the quality and integrity of directory service content. The following overlays can be used:

* constraintThe Overlay constraint (constraints) allows values ??to match a specific regular expression. For example, it can be forced that the attribute mail can only be assigned mail addresses of the own institution.
* uniqueThe Overlay unique (Attribute Uniqueness) allows a selected value to exist only once in the directory tree. For example, it can be prevented that a personnel number is assigned to two different users.
* refintThe Overlay refint (Referential Integrity) preserves the referential integrity of reference attributes. If, for example, Distinguished Names (DNs) are entered as group members or the DN of a supervisor is stored in an attribute at the employee, the overlay refint changes these references if the respective DN is changed. For this, when refining each DN, refint performs a search to see if the DN is included in such attributes. Changes will change the refint overlay in the attribute, in case of deletion it will remove the DN. Warning: If the overlay removes the last member from a group, the DN defined in the sub-directive refint_nothing will be inserted instead, since empty groups can violate the group schema. It is important to specify a suitable DN, such as a domain administrator, so that no DN with lower rights would be given inappropriate rights by the group.


With such restrictions, it should be noted that these apply only to new or changed attributes and objects. If there are any violations of the defined rules before the overlays are activated or if inappropriate data records are inserted by direct access to the database used, the above-mentioned overlays will not work.

Such restrictions may only be applied to user data. For example, using the constraints to specify operational attributes, or enforcing them within the slapd-config configuration, can lead to unpredictable behavior or the uselessness of the slapd server.



