#M 4.405 Prevent the blocking of resources (DoS) in web applications and web services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, developer

Web applications and Web services often provide resource-intensive features that trigger complex database queries or data transfers, for example. If these compute-intensive operations are deliberately called or if the web applications and web services are flooded with queries, resources can be over-used and the operation can be restricted to unreachability. This is called denial-of-service (DoS) attack.

In most cases, DoS attacks are based on both brute-force and enumeration attacks on automation (see M 4.396 Protecting against unauthorized automated use of web applications). Therefore, similar protections should be implemented to prevent DoS attacks. These include, for example, the following measures:

* Set limits (for example, the temporary blocking of a resource or user account after repeated mishaps),
* delay the time period between request and processing by the web application (for example, in case of repeated unsuccessful login),
* temporarily disable the calling IP address if an attack is suspected,
* Use CAPTCHAs,
* Verify input field input before initiating compute-intensive operations,
* Use XML filtering mechanisms and XML validation checks.


In addition, the following examples suggest specific protection measures to make denial-of-service attacks on Web applications and Web services difficult:

* Resource intensive operations are particularly vulnerable to DoS attacks. Therefore, the resource usage per user can be limited to a maximum. In addition, certain operations can only be made available to logged in users (for example, complex database calls).


* Only one request should be processed per user at the same time. Multiple requests from the same user should be processed sequentially.


* The burden of DoS queries can be significantly reduced, in part, by caching (caching) the web page views. Thus, the requested, compute-intensive operation is not executed on each call, but merely returns the cached result. Heavily resource-consuming inquiries can be precalculated even in low-load periods (pre-aggregation).


* The architecture and flow control of the web application should be designed to avoid compute-intensive operations (for example, creation of the session ID or other cryptographic mechanisms should avoid resource-intensive operations). Load tests can be performed to detect compute-intensive operations.


* An overflow of memory space, for example during logging, can lead to write accesses to the disk being no longer possible. If storage is performed by the web application or the web service, operation may be jeopardized. Therefore, access to data storage should be limited and the capacity of the data storage should be checked regularly. Similarly, the consumption of random access memory (RAM) per thread should also be limited.


* SOAP messages must be validated according to the corresponding XML schema. If the validation is unsuccessful, for example because it contains an undefined number of elements, the SOAP message may not be further processed, as otherwise it may cause problems with the XML parser.
* Similarly, web applications and web services should be protected from SOAP flooding attacks. These are comparable to conventional flooding attacks (eg SYN flooding) and can therefore be fought with similar protective measures. For example, an intrusion detection system can detect and block messages that are sent repeatedly, for example by blocking messages. By using heuristics.


In the case of web applications and web services, which by their nature can be expected to have targeted, for example politically motivated, DoS attacks from the Internet, it may also make sense to work with a service provider specializing in the defense against DoS attacks , Such service providers conduct IP traffic in the event of an attack via their own systems, which filter access and / or relieve the target systems of other measures, such as caching. It is important to consider in advance whether the diversion of the data streams over the systems of third parties will lead to additional dangers or requirements. For example, a popular method of attacking cached Web pages is for the attacker to call non-existent subpages. If the service provider does not intercept this and redirects the request for the supposedly new subpage to the original page, an inadvertent DoS attack of the service provider occurs. Such new attack vectors must be addressed in the selection of the anti-DoS service provider.

In service-oriented architectures (SOA), the entries in the service registry of SOA services must also be protected against tampering. For this reason, the WS-Policy must specify who has write access to the service registry. These are usually service providers of their own technical domains and administrators. SOAP messages that are sent by providers to the service registry for the purpose of registration are also to be secured via the provider certificate. In the label of the SOAP message. Based on the certificates, the service registry can check whether the entry is genuine. Likewise, a Quality of Service (QoS) agent with a certificate must identify itself to the service registry when sending QoS parameters to an SOA service. To protect the usually periodic synchronization between distributed service registries, the SOAP messages containing the synchronization information are to be secured by means of the certificate of the sending service registry, e.g. In the label of the SOAP message.



