#M 4.35 Verifying the data to be transmitted before shipping
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: users

Before sending a data carrier, it must be checked that the desired information - and only this information - can be reconstructed from the data carrier. This is to be checked with documents as well as with electronic data media. Letters and other analogue data media should also be inspected before shipping once again, whether they are complete on the one hand and on the other hand contain no additional information that should not be forwarded. This is especially important if, for reasons of confidentiality, parts of processes, such as attributions, can not be transmitted to third parties. For this part information z. B. blackened by blackening. Since blackened information can often be made readable again without much effort, it is better to remove it altogether from the events, eg. by being erased in a copy of the source file before printing. Depending on the protection requirements of the information, there are different methods for this:

* Documents should be structured as much as possible so that non-public content can be easily separated, eg. By only appearing in an attachment. The attachment should then be available electronically in a separate file classified as confidential.
* If the documents are already in a form that does not allow for a clean separation of confidentiality, sensitive content must be removed prior to disclosure. A basic problem is to identify and carefully remove all sensitive information. Since this already often does not work in practice, it should be avoided to pass on such documents as far as possible. However, if this is required, all critical information must be removed and the security levels of the affected documents redefined. In any case, before releasing the documents, a renewed approval process must be carried out.


* For paper documents, sensitive information is often only blackened. This is to be done in the following steps: First of all, all critical information on a paper copy must be carefully and blackened to a sufficient size. Subsequently, these blackened documents are copied. Thereafter, a check is made It checks whether the blackened passages on the copy are actually unreadable. If this is ensured and the release has been granted, the copy can be forwarded. The blackened original must never be published, as blackened passages on the original can often be made easily readable again.
* In order to remove confidential information in electronic documents, the passages requiring protection must first be replaced by other symbols and then be blacked out. For this, strings of fixed length should be used, for example XXXXXXXXXX, so that the original meaning can no longer be guessed. Before distribution, the files should be checked to see if they contain any residual information, such as: Eg earlier revision periods (see also M 4.64 Verifying the data to be transferred before transferring / removing residual information).


Electronic data media should be physically erased before further use if other data was previously stored on them (see M 4.32 Physical deletion of data media before and after use).

The correct transmission can be checked for electronic data carriers by using a program that compares the original with the transmitted file character by character (for some operating systems, for example, using the comp command).

Before shipping, all filenames on the media should be listed to verify by name that only those files destined for the recipient are included on these media.



