#M 4.424 Secure use of older software from Windows 7
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Not all software written for Windows systems is compatible with Windows 7 or later clients. To be able to use them, there are three tools available:

* Compatibility mode for single executable files
* Application Compatibility Toolkit (ACT)
* Windows XP mode (only for Windows 7 and since April 8, 2014 no longer covered by support)


If you are using software incompatible with the current version of Windows, it is very important that the security of the entire system is not relaxed in favor of the software's runnability. Therefore, only the settings that are actually needed should be adapted so that the older software can run. To find out and document the necessary settings, use an isolated test environment. The test environment must consist of at least one client system for each Windows version to be used. The entrusted person should be trained in customizing and deploying Windows clients.

In advance, however, the support agreements of the manufacturer of the software should be checked. If software support for the installed version of Windows is denied, even if it were run in Windows 7 compatibility mode, the software may also work in a virtualization environment with licensed Windows XP operating systems. Installation to be performed.

Under Windows 7, the software can be tested in VirtualPC XP mode (hereafter referred to as XP mode). The XP mode is available for Windows 7 from version Professional as a free additional package and provides a virtual machine with Windows XP available. It should be noted that Microsoft has not provided any support for Windows XP since April 2014, and therefore no security updates. This also applies to the XP mode in Windows 7, so use should be avoided as much as possible. If the operation is indispensable for operational reasons, flanking measures must be taken to protect the system.

The XP mode is not part of Windows 8. Instead, there is the virtualization technology Hyper-V in the Pro version. An alternative virtualization environment can also be used.

A virtual machine can also be used if the software is not running under the Windows version in spite of the adjustments described below. If possible, however, the software should be run directly on the clients using the usual Windows environment. Virtualization software enables new attack vectors, and XP mode does not include management, protection, and monitoring tools. The prefabricated Windows XP installation requires a separate risk assessment in connection with the lack of manufacturer support and the software used as well as the corresponding implementation of B 3.209 client under Windows XP.

In the test environment, it must be determined whether the software is executable within a user session without administrator authorization and with activated user account control (see M 4.340 Using Windows User Account Control UAC as of Windows Vista). If older hardware is to be reused, its drivers must be tested. The tests should include software and driver runnability, installation options and, if available, update mechanisms.



## Examples 
* The appropriate settings can be made on the basis of the analysis results on the test client or
* The System Compatibility Database of the test client is extended from the ACT using the command line command sdbinst and the tool Compatibility Administrator.




