#M 4.463 Secure installation of an application
Responsible for initiation: Specialist, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

After successful completion of the tests and the release of the application, the rollout or installation of the application must be planned. It is advisable to create an installation instruction (see M 2.84 Decision and development of the installation instructions for standard software). Before the software is installed, the completeness and correctness of the software delivery must be checked (see M 2.90 Checking the delivery) and the integrity of the software used must be ensured (see M 2.86 Ensuring the Integrity of standard software, this measure is also applicable to custom software). During the installation M 2.87 installation and configuration of standard software, which is also applicable for individual software, must be implemented.

In order to be able to verify later during operation whether the application has been configured correctly and to simplify a new installation of the application, the installation of an application should be documented with all its steps. This can be done, for example, in the form of successive screenshots of the installation screens in which the relevant settings are made in each case.

When making later changes to the configuration or when updating the application, make sure that this documentation is updated. Exclusive documentation of subsequent configuration changes in a ticket system or change tool usually results in the target configuration not being comprehensible without considerable effort. As a result, the configuration of the application can not be easily checked (see also M 2.34 Documentation of the changes to an existing system).



