#M 4.92 Safe operation of a system management system
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

For the safe operation of a system management system, which can also consist of various management tools (see M 2.171 Appropriate Selection of a System Management Product), the secure configuration of all components involved must be checked and ensured (see also M 4.91 Safe installation of a system management system). For this purpose, it is necessary to correspondingly secure the respective operating systems of the components, which are managed by the system management system and thus have installed parts of the system in the form of software and / or data. To secure this also includes the secure installation of computers that perform key tasks for the management system (management server, computer with management databases). In addition, secure data transmission must be ensured (see M 5.68 Use of Encryption Procedures for Network Communication).

In particular, the following points should be observed during the ongoing operation of a management system:

* As part of updating the system documentation, the hardware and software components newly added by the management system must be documented.
* Changes to the management system itself must also be documented and / or logged.
* The update applies in the same way to the emergency manual. In particular, on the one hand, the startup and recovery plans are to be modified since many standard functions of the managed operating systems can now only be implemented with the aid of the functions of the management system after the introduction of a management system. On the other hand, the emergency manual must also contain instructions on how the system can be made available to a sufficient extent (emergency operation control) within a short time without a management system (for example in case of total failure of central components) (see also module B 1.3 Emergency Management). ,
* As a rule, access to the components or data of the management system takes place exclusively by the management system itself or authorized other system mechanisms (eg data backup system). Therefore, access for normal users should be prevented. This usually also applies to the role of the local administrator of a single computer. If, in exceptional cases, the local components of the management system actually need to be accessed directly on a computer (eg during crash recovery or reinstallation of components, unless the management system supports this within the framework of management), then this authorization should be used explicitly and only for the performance of this task.
* In the context of security policy, the powers must be determined. For the area of ??management there is also a role separation administrator and auditor - depending on the product, also between administrators with different rights (eg workgroup administrator, area administrator). It is recommended that you define specific roles and set up users with appropriate authorizations for these different roles. As a result, only the rights to components or data of the management system, which are necessary for its current task, are granted to the accessing party. Depending on the management system, the setup of the users takes place in the management system or in the user management of the computers. Since the existing systems do not directly provide for the definition of different roles (such as administrator and auditor), the roles must best be simulated by setting up different user accounts (eg administrator, auditor, RechnerAdmin, data protection officer) with appropriate authorizations. Depending on the system, this replication of the roles is only incomplete and possible with some effort, as u. For each system component (files, programs), the authorizations for the individual roles must be explicitly assigned and maintained.
* Access to the management software must be protected by secure passwords. The passwords should be changed regularly according to security policy.
* Functions of the management software that should not be used according to the management strategy should be blocked, if possible.
* The logging files should be regularly checked for anomalies (eg execution of functions which should not be used). Here, the use of protocol analyzers is recommended, which can either be integrated into the management product or also be available as additional software, and which (usually) can generate rule-controlled, if necessary, alarm messages (eg mail, pager).
* The management system must undergo integrity checks at intervals so that unauthorized changes can be detected as early as possible. This applies in particular to all configuration data of the management system.
* If software is also distributed via the system management system, the program data to be distributed must also be regularly checked for changes in order to prevent the distribution of modified software across the entire network.
* The management system should be tested for its behavior in a system crash. Depending on the management and security policy, an automatic restart of the management system or local subcomponents of the system must be ensured. This prevents computers connected to the management system from being accessible to management for a longer period of time (see also M 6.57 Creating an emergency plan for the failure of the management system).
* In the case of a system crash, the management databases can not be destroyed or get into an inconsistent state, to prevent a possible attacker from exploiting provoked inconsistencies. For this, the management system must either use a database system that supports corresponding recovery mechanisms or implement these mechanisms themselves (see M 2.170 System Management System Requirements). If these mechanisms are not provided by the selected system (eg when using several management tools), the computers that store management information should be backed up as far as possible (including physically) Building blocks of layer 3).
* The management system should include a suitable backup mechanism to back up the management data or collaborate with a backup system. When importing old data from a data backup, it must be ensured that they usually have to be reworked manually in order to comply with the current system configuration.
* Also, data backups secured by backup procedures are to be stored in such a way that no unauthorized third party can gain access to them. Typically, the data is not stored in secure form on the backup disk so that it can be viewed by anyone with the backup program and disk drive.
* The division into management domains and their responsibilities should be reviewed at regular intervals for validity. This applies in particular to the case of internal restructuring.




