#M 4.380 Use of Apple software restore on Mac OS X
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

On Mac OS X, file systems can be duplicated and cloned using the Apple Software Restore (ASR) application. Not only does ASR provide the ability to clone partitions, but also provide a disk image on the network and distribute it across the network to clients.

If a client has been installed under Mac OS X as per the company or agency requirements and complies with the security guidelines, this system can be cloned and used for a network installation for additional clients. This will allow all clients running Mac OS X to have the same basic configuration that meets the institution's security requirements.

The first thing to do is create a disk image from the standard system. For this purpose, the following steps have to be performed:

* The installation DVD must be inserted.
* After selecting the menu language, the hard disk utility must be started.
* Now the partition to be cloned must be selected and deactivated with a right-click.
* Then you must use the menu item File | New | Image of DiskXYZ creates a disk image of the partition to be cloned onto additional client machines. This process may take several minutes, depending on the size of the drive being copied.
* Once the process has been completed, the generated disk image must be checked for errors. To do this, restart the computer and run the following command in the terminal:


sudo asr --source /Path_to/Image.dmg --imagescan

After successfully checking the disk image, a property list (Plist) must be created. The content of this plist is the Variable Data Rate of type Number. According to the existing network and the desired streaming bandwidth, a value in the unit of bytes per second, without commas or points for delimitation must be entered in this variable. For example, 1000000 would mean that a throughput of 1 megabit per second (Mbps) is desired. The address of the server that provides the disk image is entered in the variable with the name Multicast Address specified by Apple. The variable is of type String, for example, possible content is 239.255.0.1.

To create a plist, the Property List Editor utility is available in the / Developer / Applications / Utilities directory. This program is available after installing the Developer tools from the installation DVD.

To deploy the disk image to the network, ASR must be started as a server with the following command:

sudo asr server --source /Path_to/Image.dmg --config /path/to/server.plist

The last step is to start copying over the network. To do this, the installation DVD is inserted on the client and the terminal is called up in the utilities. The following command starts the copy process:

asr restore --source asr: // IP-address-of-server --target / volume / target volume --erase

It should be noted that the client can establish a working network connection.



