#M 4.6 Revision of the PBX configuration
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, TK-Anlagenverantwortlicher

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, auditor

In order to ensure the safety of the TC systems, revisions of the PBX configuration must be made at regular intervals. Reviewing is especially the control of the activity of the system administration, the maintenance staff, the actual state of the PBX and the compliance with data protection regulations.

Every configuration change, such as the granting of authorizations for a user, should be entered in an actual stock list. This list can be done manually or automatically. At regular intervals, for example every 6 months, this actual inventory should be compared at least randomly with the reality. Through a continuous revision of the inventory, the desired level of security and privacy can be ensured. If discrepancies are found, these must be clarified using the protocols of the PBX.

For example, it should be checked whether

* all non-assigned numbers are not really set up,
* Telephone numbers and subscribers are completely assigned,
* prohibited permissions are nowhere assigned,
* disabled features and communication interfaces as well
* deactivated dial-in functions are also really inactive.


If it is not desired or not possible to set up the role of an independent auditor, the evaluation of the log files can also be carried out by the administrator. In this case, it should be noted that this makes it difficult to control the activities of the administrator himself. In addition, the administrator may be able to gain insight into protected data (call logs) (see M 2.110 Privacy considerations for logging). The result of the evaluation should therefore be submitted to at least DemIT safety officer, the IT manager or another employee to be specially appointed.



