#M 4.289 Restriction of accessibility via VoIP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In the fewest cases, it is advisable that the VoIP components of a public agency or a company can be accessed directly from the Internet. Direct access, for example by connecting to an internal IP address, can open many possibilities for an attacker. It therefore has to be decided how external contact partners should be able to make contact via the VoIP architecture.

First of all, it must be checked whether the direct establishment of a VoIP connection from outside should be supported at all. Often it is sufficient that the contact takes place via a circuit-switching telephone network. In this case, no internal VoIP components can be reached from the public data network. The gateway, which operates between the public switched telephone network and the local VoIP network, should also be unable to access the public data network. In the case of a general waiver of the accessibility via VoIP from the outside, however, there are disadvantages for external call partners. If they have a connection to a public data network, they still have to establish a connection via the public, circuit-switched telephone network. The costs incurred are generally higher than those for a direct connection to a VoIP address, such as a SIP URL. However, since this disadvantage has many advantages, especially for security-critical application cases, the accessibility via VoIP should be viewed critically from the outside.

If connections from outside are only permitted via the public, circuit-switched telephone network, SPIT (spam over IP telephones) can also be avoided. Since SPIT can then not be cost-effectively transmitted over the data network, the same costs as with a call to a user who does not use VoIP.

If you still want to establish a connection from or to the public data network, the decision including the residual risks must be documented. In addition, appropriate security measures must be taken. For example, all traffic can be routed through a concentrator that, like a proxy server, accepts connection requests and forwards them to the next system, such as another server or directly to a terminal. When using a concentrator, the following points should be noted:

* Both the signaling and voice information between the public and private data networks must be routed through the concentrator. The establishment of individual connections should be prevented. The packet filters and security gateways must be configured accordingly, so that VoIP communication with external communication partners can only take place via a concentrator. For example, the concentrator can be operated within the demilitarized zone (DMZ) of the security gateway. In this way, direct connection establishment from the local network to the public network or from the public network to the local network could be avoided.
* Due to the lack of a signaling standard, it is recommended to support as many signaling protocols as possible. Therefore, the concentrator should act as a gateway between the protocol used in the local area network and the protocols available to external users.
* In order to counteract a misuse, a call setup from the internal to the external data network should only be possible after an authentication at the concentrator.
* For connections within the local area network, the concentrator should not be involved.
* It must be determined which functions should be offered to external subscribers in addition to voice communication.
* The concentrator should recognize and reject signaling and voice packets that are not protocol compliant (examples are too large data packets).
* Since the public data network can be accessed directly from the concentrator, the safety-critical configuration should be in the foreground.
* People in the public data network must know the IP address of the concentrator in order to connect to it. Therefore, it is advisable to publish the address of the concentrator by means of a corresponding entry in the DNS server of the agency or the company.
* The reception, processing and forwarding of the voice and signaling information can take up high resources. Therefore, both the network connection and the system resources should be sufficiently dimensioned.
* If high availability requirements are met, the concentrator should be designed redundantly. With a redundant design for load distribution, the remaining systems have to provide enough resources to be able to compensate for a possible failure.


Many manufacturers offer partially proprietary systems for this purpose. As an alternative in the open source environment, the software telephone system Asterisk, which can be operated as an appliance, fulfills many of these requirements. Another advantage of using a concentrator is avoiding the problems associated with using NAT (Network Address Translation).



