#M 4.109 Software reinstallation on workstations
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Workstation computers can often cause problems with the operating system or applications, which can only be remedied by user support. This can z. B. caused by software errors, configuration changes, new software applications or computer viruses.

So that the administrators do not have to search for errors on the user computers with the problems described above, a software reinstallation of the standard configuration should be carried out.

For this purpose, the computer must first be clearly identified and then, using appropriate documentation or a program, it must be precisely determined by means of this identification which software has to be installed in which configuration on this computer. It is helpful if the systems are largely identical, at least in areas with similar tasks.

It is recommended to reformat the hard drive of the workstation and then re-install the required software and data.

A software reinstallation can be performed in different ways, so there are z. B. special programs that override a given configuration from a server to the newly installed workstation. It should be noted that such work is usually time-critical in two respects: The re-establishment should be as fast as possible so that the IT system is available again, and the network should be charged as little as possible. This is especially important for training computers or PC pools.

Of course, a reinstallation can also be done by hand. For this purpose, a standard installation should be done first. Subsequently, the peculiarities of the individual computers are copied, such as special device drivers, other configuration files or special software. However, these must be preconfigured, z. B. on the net or on mobile data carriers. A current virus search program must then be used.



