#M 4.290 Requirements for a security gateway for the use of VoIP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

If an IP data network is used for VoIP, there are additional requirements, in particular also for the security of the network. Often the strict separation of voice and data networks is not possible because, for example, softphones from workstations from the data network access the VoIP server in the voice network, groupware clients allow the direct dialing of numbers of stored contacts from the application or VoIP servers with directory services such as Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP). In addition, there may be the networking of geographically separate office, corporate or organizational locations, which for example use a central VoIP server for organization-wide communication and at the same time use this connection for the exchange of data.

A security gateway is intended to protect an internal, secure system against unauthorized access from an insecure network while allowing legitimate access to the protected areas. What is considered a secure or insecure network, which resources are worthy of protection and how they are to be protected, is defined in the organization's security guidelines (see also B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall)).

When planning the use of VoIP, it should be checked whether the existing security gateway can be adapted for the use of VoIP. Otherwise, an additional security gateway must be procured and installed for this purpose.



## Examples 
* How big is the net?
* Which system components are available? Do existing switches enable VLAN separation of voice and data networks? Do existing routers support access lists (ACLs) or functionality of security gateways?
* Which security gateways are already used in the data network?
* Is only a limited to the LAN IP telephony or Internet telephony planned?
* How comprehensive is the knowledge of the supervising IT staff?
* Which VoIP system components are used?
* What financial framework is available for implementing the security objectives?




