#M 4.250 Selection of a central, network-based authentication service
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In principle, IT systems should ensure that all users who want to access them have to authenticate. This is the only way to prevent unauthorized persons from gaining access to the services offered by the system or to the data stored on the system. Exceptions are only those IT systems that should be generally accessible, such as public information services (eg public web servers) or similar.

After the authentication has been successfully completed, the system must ensure that users only have access to those services and data for which they have appropriate authorizations.

Often, the authentication should not only be done for a single service or on a single system, but at least for different services and on different systems, the same authentication data (such as user name and password) can be used. In such a case, a central, network-based authentication service is required so that the authentication data need not be managed and updated individually on each participating system.

The extreme case here is the so-called single sign-on, in which an authentication takes place centrally for all services of an IT network. This has the advantage that users only have to log in once. Users only need a password or token at a time, so they do not have to remember different passwords or store a large number of tokens. On the other hand, an attacker would be able to access all services of the IT network if he could log on as a user once.

If a central, network-based authentication system is to be used, careful planning is particularly important since the function and security of such a system are decisive factors for the security of the entire IT network.

The central authentication can be achieved by using a central authentication system such as Kerberos. Kerberos offers the further advantage that, in addition to Unix systems, Kerberos authentication can also be used under Windows operating systems.

Key recommendations that must be considered for the selection and use of a network-based authentication service are described below:



## Examples 
* It should be placed in a separate server room. Here, measures to be implemented are described in block B 2.4 Server room. If no server room is available, the authentication server can alternatively be set up in a server cabinet (see block B 2.7 Protective cabinets).
* He may only be within a protected network.




