#M 4.149 File and share permissions on Windows
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Windows operating systems with NT kernel use the file system NTFS. The mechanisms for access control hardly differ. The following table provides an overview of the possible access rights to files. These allow a much more detailed configuration from Windows XP than was possible with the previous versions.

Table: Overview of folder and file access rights

The access rights can be applied to files or folders. In the context of rights inheritance, it is possible that the rights of a folder to files and / or subfolders are passed, so that there is an easy way to change the access rights in a whole sub-data tree by the change in one place. Inheritance to the objects in a directory can be specifically controlled by the following seven settings, which specify which objects should be used to inherit the access rights:

* Only this folder
* This folder, subfolders and files
* This folder, subfolders
* This folder, files
* Only subfolders and files
* Only subfolders
* Only files


With the option Apply permissions only for objects and / or containers in this container, you can also ensure that the rights are not recursively passed on to the respective subtree, but only to the objects in the current directory.

Two additional options are available for controlling the transfer of rights to objects when using the inheritance mechanism:

If the two rights are in conflict with each other, the forced assumption of the inherited rights is enforced.

As of Windows XP, the access settings for [Folder Name or File Name] in Advanced Security Settings have been renamed to [Folder Name or File Name] and extended by the Monitoring and Effective Permissions tabs.

Monitoring of access to objects, such as files and folders, can be configured from Windows XP through the Monitoring tab. For example, it is possible to monitor incorrect access to a folder. This access control can be inherited to all folders and files in the folder.

The verification of the rights of a user takes place starting from Windows XP by means of the tab Effective authorizations, whose designation was changed into effective access as of Windows 8. It can be checked for each file and folder which effective permissions a user or a group have. These effective permissions may be different due to the inheritance or affiliation of a user to different groups.

This multiplicity of different file permissions in combination with the different inheritance mechanisms makes the administration of access rights unclear to the user. In the normal case, therefore, it is recommended to use only the standard composite access rights:

Table: Default access rights

As part of the planning of the Windows deployment is also the authorization and access concept for files and folders to design, which determines the detailed access rights. The organizational and business requirements must be taken into consideration. In general, it is recommended to assign restrictive rights for the Windows system files.

As initial configuration for clients as of Windows XP, the following authorization specifications can be used, which in any case have to be adapted to the local conditions. The proposed settings assume that the user ID Power User is not used, as administrative issues are covered by administrators with appropriate authorizations as part of the administration concept. For this reason, the ID main user must be removed from all access lists. In addition, within the scope of the administration concept, a separation of powers is recommended, so that the administrative authorizations are divided into corresponding accounts. However, the following assumes that the Administrators group has all administrative power. The permissions apply only to the specified directories or files and are not intended for inheritance.

Table: Permission Defaults for directories in Windows XP

Table: Permission Defaults for files in Windows XP

The permission settings for directories for clients as of Windows Vista are documented in the following table:

Table: Permission Defaults for directories for clients as of Windows Vista

The TrustedInstaller is mentioned in the above table, see M 4.341 Integrity Protection as of Windows Vista in the section Windows Resource Protection and Trusted Installer for further information.

The permission settings for files from clients as of Windows Vista are documented in the following table:

Table: Permission settings for files from clients as of Windows Vista

Release for data access

Windows allows directories and their files to be made available via a network access authorization. The access control takes place in two stages. Access authorizations for the network release itself can be set up. You determine who is allowed to access the network release in general.

For example, if users are responsible for authorizing their own or project files, they must be trained accordingly. Otherwise, insecure file access rights may lead to the compromise of a single system or, in the worst case, compromise of the information network.

Assigning permissions to the preconfigured user group Everyone (especially full access, write / change) should be avoided in principle. If access is to be possible for all users, it is recommended to use the also preconfigured group Authenticated Users instead. Furthermore, the above-described file system-level access rights to files and directories have an effect. Permissions on network shares can only be granted via the rights:

* Full Control,
* Change and
* Read


being controlled. However, a finer control is not necessary at this point.

To set file, directory and share permissions, the following rules should be followed:

* Sharing on workstations should be avoided.
* Sharing on domain controllers is also to be avoided as domain controllers store sensitive data.
* All unavoidable releases on workstations and domain controllers must be justified and documented and should only be made after prior risk assessment.
* For all shares and the data that can be accessed, the access rights must be granted as restrictively as possible.
* It should be considered to remove the Everyone user account and use the Authenticated Users user account instead.
* The access concept must be documented.




