#M 4.281 Secure installation and deployment of Windows Server 2003
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The deployment includes the steps from the planning and procurement of the server or a group of servers to the commencement of productive operation. Particularly critical is the installation of the operating system. During this phase, the protections of Windows Server 2003 will not work. Many security policies can only be enforced on an installed server. On the other hand, important parameters for later operation are already determined by the installation. Therefore, an installation concept according to M .2.318 Secure installation of an IT system must be created, which takes into account the specific behavior of Windows Server 2003. With a group of servers or recurring installations, the automation and standardization of installations becomes more important, and the existing IT environment and any existing software management systems influence the installation and deployment. Such considerations often go beyond the scope of an installation concept for the individual server. Therefore, the creation of a more comprehensive, reusable deployment concept is recommended, which takes into account the existing installation concepts. The installation and deployment concepts should be designed to provide the administrator with a concrete guide to their respective installation job.

In addition to the manual installation of an unmodified Windows Server 2003 disk, there are two basic deployment variants: hard disk image and installing from an installation source using Setup. With both variants, automation and standardization are possible in different ways.

In the figure, for the further considerations, these deployment variants are used as examples as two possible paths:



The illustration shows the basic resources for the provision and the order in which the funds are prepared. The scenario can be varied and supplemented by additional software. The administrator should at least be trained in using the resources shown here, as they are based on almost all procedures.



## Examples 
* Booting and initiating the installation
* Drivers for mass storage devices and possibly network drivers must be provided during the boot process
* Type of installation source (disk, network)
* Integrate service packs into the installation source (so-called slipstreamed)
* Provision of the product key
* Provide hardware drivers
* Importing product updates (patches)
* if necessary, Dom nenbeitritt
* Configure server roles
* make security-relevant settings, according to safety guidelines
* Product activation of Windows Server 2003




