#M 4.105 First measures after a Unix standard installation
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Most Unix systems do not meet the requirements for secure system operation following a standard installation. Here too often too many safety-critical services and configurations are activated by the manufacturers or they are provided with far-reaching rights.

The following overview is an example of how a standard installation can be secured:

* Prior to installation, the administrators must be trained accordingly, in particular with regard to the safety aspects. In this context, they should familiarize themselves with all potential security vulnerabilities of the operating system used and the applications installed on them (see also M 2.35 Obtaining information about security gaps in the system). It may also make sense to subscribe to corresponding mailing lists.
* After installation, the administrator IDs should be protected with good passwords (see M 2.11 Control of password usage) or a two-factor authentication should be included.
* It should be checked which services are running on the IT system. This can be. B.with the command netstat -a | grep LISTS. Unnecessary services should be disabled or removed (see M 5.72 Disabling Unnecessary Network Services).
* If the system does not act as a mail server, the mail daemon should be disabled as a network service. If mail is to be delivered locally on the system, sendmail can be started with the -q15 option or as a cron process: 1 * * * * / usr / sbin / sendmail -q 2> & 1> / dev / nullThe mail queue becomes emptied at regular intervals and delivered the mail locally.


* The latest sendmail version should be installed (see also M 4.107 Using Vendor and Developer Resources and M 5.19 Using sendmail Security Mechanisms). Alternatively, public domain mail programs such as. qmail. The current sendmail version can be found using the telnet localhost 25 command.
* After the standard installation, the available security patches of the manufacturer should be installed (see also M 4.107 Use of manufacturer and developer resources). After that, it is absolutely necessary to check that the patch installation does not activate any unused services.
* The file systems should be imported or exported as restrictively as possible. It is important to ensure that file systems are not exported for all writable.
* If there are no alternatives to using NIS, NIS + should be used, which has enhanced security mechanisms.
* If tftp needs to be available then it should be started with the -s option, so that not every file can be copied by the system (see also M 5.21 Safe use of telnet, ftp, tftp and rexec and M 5.72 Disable not ben Approved network services).
* The logging function of the inetd should be activated with -t in order to log every attempt to establish a connection (see M 5.72 Deactivating unused network services). The installation of public domain tools xinetd or TCP wrappers is helpful. With these tools u. a. All connection attempts are logged early, even before the addressed daemon is started via inetd.
* Log files should be examined daily or weekly. For semi-automatic evaluation, analysis programs such as swatch, logdaemon or logsurfer should be installed (see M 2.64 Control of log files).
* For example, safety checks should be carried out regularly with programs for integrity checks or audit tools.
* In addition to all other unused services, rshd, rlogind, rexecd should be disabled (see M 5.72 Disabling Unnecessary Network Services). For the conversion of RPC program numbers into port addresses most manufacturers supply the program rpcbind. As an add-on or replacement, the portmapper daemon should be used if it is available for the current platform. All clients using these services should not be made executable by normal users. Other authentication methods based on hostnames should be completely eliminated.
* Telnet should be replaced by ssh. ssh enables a strongly encrypted and authenticated interactive connection between two systems. ssh is to be understood as a replacement for telnet, rsh, rlogin and rcp. X-Window can thus also be transmitted securely (see also M 5.64 Secure Shell).
* Xauth is preferable to xhost - it should never be used with xhost + (see also M 4.9 Using the security mechanisms of X-Window).
* From the configuration file /etc/inetd.conf all unused entries should be removed (see M 5.72 Disabling Unnecessary Network Services).
* The configuration file /etc/syslog.conf must be modified to enable the protocol functions (see M 4.106 Enabling System Logging).
* A list of all world-writable files and directories can be created with the following commands: find / -type f -perm -22 -exec ls -l {} /; find / -type d -perm -22 -exec ls -ld {} /; The results should be compared regularly with the installation condition.


* Before commissioning, an Integrity Check program should be installed. Before starting the active operation, a checksum overview of the critical system areas of the installed system should be created. The generated overview should be stored on a non-writable disk.
* / var should be a large partition so that producing log data reliably does not bring the Unix system to a standstill.


All changes made should be carefully documented and agreed among all system administrators. This documentation can be done in paper form or in a file on the respective system. However, it should be able to be viewed and updated at any time (see also M 2.34 Documentation of the changes to an existing system).



