#M 4.457 Secure tenant separation for web applications and web services
Responsible for initiation: Responsible for the individual applications, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, developer

If a web service is shared by several, independent users (clients), then measures must be implemented that prevent a user from inadvertently or abusively accessing the data of another client (see G .4.94 Unauthorized access to data of another client in web applications and web services).

Different methods are possible for the separation of the data, which can be used individually or in combination:

Application-side separation

When executing a program function, the program code of the application decides which data is accessible to which user, for example by displaying exclusively data records created by the user himself or by the data records containing a specific client identifier, which is evaluated by the application. Here, the risk of unwanted access to data from other clients is particularly high, since even an implementation error in the code or a missing check in the direct call of functions corresponding data can reveal.

Separation in the data management

In this implementation variant, the data of different clients in the used data storage systems are kept separate (for example, in different logical databases, different tables or different branches in the directory service schema). By using corresponding client-specific accounts for data access and a suitable authorization concept, it can be ensured that only client-specific data can be read or changed. In this scenario, allocation errors are only possible if the error also leads to an incorrect assignment of the database / directory service account used.

Separation of environments

The services of different clients are offered on different virtual or physical systems. Access by a user ensures that only services can be accessed on the systems of one's own client. This can be achieved, for example, by a corresponding authentication method or by network-side measures which make the various systems accessible only from the network of the respective client.

Client-specific encryption

Additional protection against unauthorized access can be achieved through the encrypted storage of data. The encryption may include entire database contents, but alternatively only individual sensitive data fields. The generation, use and provision of the necessary cryptographic keys in the systems of the users excludes access by third parties to their own data. This procedure also ensures protection against unauthorized access to data by administrators of the service provider, but requires appropriate key management strategies, especially if keys are lost or changed. Furthermore, encryption measures also severely restrict the server-side processing of the data, so searching for or sorting with means of the database management system, for example, is no longer possible.

To implement a client separation safely and effectively, the following points must be considered:

* Separation of the databases of different clients must not only be implemented on the application side, but must also be supported by logically separate data management with separate database accounts for access and correspondingly restricted authorizations.
* In the event of increased protection requirements, options for client-specific encryption must be additionally examined and implemented as required. It must be ensured that access to the required cryptographic keys is only possible for the respective authorized person (client-side cryptation). Such a solution is particularly necessary if access to data records by administrators of the service provider must be safely excluded.
* The assignment of users to their clients must be implemented in a tamper-proof manner (by means of an appropriate client-based user management or suitable criteria for the automatic assignment of users to clients, for example based on certificates).
* The client separation must be implemented consistently. This applies to external interfaces as well as methods for data backup (possibility of separate backup of client data). The logging mechanisms must also be designed in such a way that a client-specific evaluation or provision of log files is possible.
* The chosen concept for client separation must be described comprehensibly in the documentation. Within the framework of regular audits and penetration tests, the effectiveness of client separation in the scope of the review must be taken into account.




