#M 4.295 Secure configuration of the WLAN clients
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

So that WLANs can be operated safely, all clients coupled with them must also be securely configured. Suitable security recommendations for clients are described in the blocks of the Layer 3 IT systems. In addition, the following WLAN-specific security measures should be taken:

* Preset SSIDs, cryptographic keys and passwords must be changed immediately after commissioning. Passwords should be chosen so that they are hard to guess.
* The ad-hoc mode should be turned off so that clients can only communicate with each other via an access point, not directly with each other.
* Protective data on mobile devices should be encrypted. There are a variety of hardware or software-based products that allow you to encrypt individual files, certain areas or the entire hard drive, so that only those who have access rights will decrypt the data can.
* The WLAN interfaces of clients should generally be deactivated as long as they are not actually used. Above all, this should always be done when the clients are logged in to a wired LAN. The access from a client to the in-house LAN via the usual internal connections should therefore only be possible if no WLAN activities take place. Otherwise, this provides an attacker with the ability to access connections that may be in the home network (and authenticated) via the WLAN interface.
* When establishing VPN connections, various security requirements should be fulfilled on the client side. Thus, it should not be possible to use other communication interfaces in addition to a VPN connection in parallel, so that it is not over insecure channels that are considered secure VPN connections is cooled. It is also advisable to not only assume certain minimum security measures for the clients, but also to check them before they can be accessed via VPN. However, we recommend that you check the security policies on the clients before the server allows further communication.
* It must be checked regularly, if all security-relevant updates and patches have been recorded. Installing a major software update on WLAN clients over the WLAN can be problematic, since the bandwidth in the WLAN compared to the cable-based LAN is much lower. The installation of an update not only takes much longer, but also other users of the WLAN can be noticeably hampered, since WLAN is a shared medium. If possible, a client should be connected to a wired LAN to install a major software update. In addition, the transmission of software updates on the air interface may be prioritized lower as long as the installation time thereby extended is practicable. In this way, other WLAN applications are no longer significantly disturbed by the software update.


It should be checked regularly that safety-relevant settings have not been changed.

It must be clearly defined whether and under what conditions WLAN clients can be logged on to other networks (see M 4.251 Working with third-party IT systems), especially if they have access to the productive environment or are stored on this confidential information are.

WLAN clients should not be used in unsafe environments, such as. Public hotspots or WEP-secured WLANs only. WLAN clients that process data requiring a high level of protection may only be used in WLANs that are operated completely under their own control and configured accordingly. Use in other WLANs is prohibited.

All users of WLAN components should be aware of potential risks and usage issues, as well as the benefits, but also limitations, of the security measures used. All users must be aware of the security policy for using the WLAN (see M 2.382 Creating a security policy for WLAN use). No one should be able to access an internal WLAN that has not previously agreed in writing to the terms of use set forth in the Wireless Security Policy.



