#M 4.343 Reactivation of Windows systems from Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user, IT security officer, IT manager

For a working client as of Windows Vista or a server as of Windows 2008, the operating system must be installed and a license activated (see S 4.336 Activation of Windows systems as of Vista or Server 2008 from a volume license agreement).

The process of activating a license is subject to certain conditions. If this is violated, the Windows Vista client automatically falls into the so-called RFM (Reduced Functionality Mode). In the RFM, the Vista client is no longer operational until a Windows Vista license for the client has been successfully reactivated. With the release of Windows Vista Service Pack 1 and Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008, Microsoft has withdrawn the RFM. Instead of the RFM, Windows systems now display corresponding warning messages. These also hinder the regular operation of the system. In both cases, a reactivation of the affected system is required to return to unrestricted normal operation.

In particular, before hardware modifications (eg changing the hard disk or expanding the main memory), the Microsoft support should be contacted in order to obtain information on a possibly necessary reactivation. It should also be considered in advance to test for possible reactivation in a test environment.



## Examples 
* Specifically for KMS activation, is it ensured that the Windows systems can communicate with the KMS within 210 days of the last activation?
* Specifically for KMS activation is it ensured that the KMS is actively used by clients of a total of at least 25 Windows systems and servers of at least 5 Windows systems?
* Is KMS reactivation especially ensured that a KMS is available in the period of a desired reactivation?
* For Active Directory-based activation, ensure that the Windows systems can connect to the Dom nen controller in the main network within 180 days, or have other activation methods, such as. Activation via removable data carriers, considered?




