#M 4.485 Secure operating system for embedded systems
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: planner, procurer, developer

For embedded systems, there are many different operating systems. Some highly specialized systems do not need an operating system at all, others are embedded operating systems developed from multi-purpose operating systems, eg. B. Embedded Linux variants or Windows CE. In between there are numerous (real-time) operating systems specialized in various aspects of embedded systems, such as: B.RTOS or VxWorks.

On the one hand, only a part of the features of a multi-purpose operating system is usually needed, eg. B.

* address space descriptors are only necessary in the case of systems that require address space isolation,
* file system and file management are irrelevant in some applications,
* require ROM-based systems on which only one program runs automatically, no process-related user rights management,
* can be dispensed with a time-consuming management of process states if the process is set in advance for the process and does not change,
* Event management is only required for event-driven and / or preemptive systems.


On the other hand, embedded systems may have requirements that are difficult or impossible to implement with general-purpose operating systems, e.g. B.

* hard real-time assurances,
* further mechanisms for error detection and treatment,
* Compulsion to work in a resource-efficient way.


When designing or procuring an embedded system, care must be taken to ensure that the operating system and its configuration are suitable for the intended operation under the given conditions, including the safety requirements. The operating system must be configured according to the specific security requirements of the overall system. The security requirements should be documented in the security policy and in the software development process. In principle, the operating system should only have the services, functions and features necessary for the intended task. Only drivers of used interfaces may be included.

Security aspects of an operating system should be taken into account in different areas and phases of operation. The system should be developed in a safe and planned process. The system architecture should separate the kernel from packages such as middleware, network protocols, and applications. It should be possible to supplement and modify these components without changing the kernel. This can be achieved with a so-called microkernel. A microkernel, in contrast to a monolithic kernel, only has basic functions for memory and process management and for synchronization and communication. He is thus less vulnerable and crash-proof.

As in M 4.489 Secure and authenticated boot process for embedded systems and M 4.483 Use of cryptographic processors or coprocessors (Trusted Platform Module) in embedded systems as well as M 4.78 Careful implementation of configuration changes and M 4.177 Ensuring integrity and authenticity of software packages, the operating system must provide mechanisms for secure booting and secure program execution. To do this, it must be able to integrate and use a Trusted Platform Module (TPM).

During operation, the system should be able to ward off attacks. This can also be achieved by installing and using additional security products. In hibernation, it may not be possible for an attacker to access data.

A smart card operating system should in particular provide the following mechanisms and services:

* User identification and authentication using PIN, PUK or biometric methods
* Access control with rights management
* Mutual authentication of smart cards and other computers
* Secure data transfer (Secure Messaging) against exploration and manipulation
* Provision of signing and encryption functions in secure interaction with crypto terminals
* I / O control of all interfaces by the operating system against unauthorized access
* Ensuring the interference freedom of individual applications: different applications should not influence each other
* Possibility to deactivate the chipcard


For systems with high or very high protection requirements, check whether it is necessary to evaluate the operating system, eg. B.nachISO15408. Rather than fully evaluate an entire operating system, it is advisable to follow the BSI Protection Profile Operating System Protection Profile (OSPP).



