#M 4.84 Use of BIOS security mechanisms
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

ModerneBIOS variants such. For example, the UEFI (Unified Extensible Firmware Interface) provides a variety of security mechanisms that system administrators should familiarize themselves with. Under no circumstances should untrained users change BIOS entries as they can cause serious damage.

* Write protection: Many motherboards have a hardware write protection for the BIOS (usually in the form of a jumper on the motherboard). If such a write protection exists, it should be used and removed only if necessary BIOS changes, z. B. after a necessary BIOS update (see M 6.27 Secure BIOS update). Then he should be put back.
* Password protection: For most BIOS variants, password protection can be activated. This is partly relatively easy to overcome, but should definitely be used if no other access protection mechanisms are available. Mostly it can be selected, whether the password before each computer start or only against accesses to the BIOS settings should be checked. In some cases, even different passwords can be used for these tests. To prevent unauthorized persons from changing the BIOS settings, the setup or administrator password should always be activated.
* Boot Order: The boot order should be set so that booting from the disk using the intended operating system is the only option. Booting from other volumes should be prevented. This protects against an infection with certain malicious programs if a data carrier was accidentally forgotten in the system. Without a change in the boot sequence, access protection mechanisms (see M 4.1 Password protection for IT systems) and other security measures can also be used Be circumvented. An example of this is starting another operating system so that set security attributes are ignored (see M 4.49 Protecting the boot process for a Windows system) .Generally, it should be checked by a boot attempt, whether the boot order transition is in effect, as some controllers will disable internal order and require a separate setup.
* Virus protection, virus warning function: If this function is activated, the computer requires a confirmation of a change in the boot sector or the MBR (Master Boot Record) to confirm that this change may be made. If the virus warning function is supported by the BIOS version, this feature should be enabled for additional protection.




