#M 4.314 Secure policy settings for domains and domain controllers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A Windows Server with Active Directory includes default security policy settings for the domain and for the domain controllers. However, we recommend that you change the default policy settings to increase the security of Dom ne and Dom nen controllers by:

* Secure Password Policy Settings Access to domain controllers must be secured with strong mechanisms. For more information on the necessary password policy settings, refer to the Microsoft server-specific blocks.
* Account Blocking Policies Logging logon attempts (see also M 4.316 Monitoring the Active Directory Infrastructure) should be set up to detect attacks. For example, a large number of unsuccessful password entries might indicate a brute force attack during a login attempt. The actual account lockout is defined by the options Account Lockout Duration, Account Lockout Threshold and Resetting the Account Lockout Counter as described in step M .2.231 Planning Group Policy on Windows.
* Kerberos policy settingsThe authentication service provided by Kerberos allocates the required authorization data for resource access to each client. Here, access to network resources is granted using session tickets. For this purpose, the domain controller issues a so-called Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) to the client in advance. If an attempt is made by the clients to access a resource, the client transmits the TGT for checking to the domain controller. The domain controller, in turn, will generate a session ticket to the client upon successful verification, allowing temporary access to the resource. An adjustment to the Kerberos policy setting may result in domain user accounts the Kerberos tickets, z. As the period of validity to be adjusted. Notes on customizing the Kerberos policies can be found in the IT Baseline Protection Tools (see Kerberos Policy Settings for Domains in Active Directory Tools).


For secure domain controller policy settings, we also recommend the following:

User rights should be restricted so users in the domain or on the domain controller can perform the operational or administrative tasks. The accessibility of users should be restricted in such a way that they do not endanger the security of the domain controllers (see also measure M 2.229 Planning of the Active Directory).

Setting policy settings for domain controller monitoring will provide proof of responsibility for sensitive directory operations, such as: Administrative or configuration changes. You should set up logon attempts, account management, Active Directory access, object access attempts, policy changes, rights usage, process tracking, and system events.

Important Active Directory objects, such as. the directory partitions should be monitored with appropriate policy settings. This requires the monitoring of the directory partitions (logical areas of the Active Directory database) to be activated. The directory partitions affected are schema, configuration, and domain.

The above recommendations for setting policy settings cause the default maximum size of the security log to be increased to accommodate a larger number of monitored events. The logs must be evaluated promptly. In addition, there must be a clearly defined procedure for regular and timely archiving as well as a backup of the security and system event logs so that no events are lost or overwritten.

In addition, cooperation between domains in different forest structures should be supported, eg. for the sharing of applications or limited co-operation between different forests in an institution, external trusts should be established. External trusts, however, create a potential security risk as security limits are exceeded. Therefore, domain controllers in the relying domain should filter user authorization data and remove security identifiers (SIDs) that are not related to the domain of the user account. A detailed description of how to recover comprehensive privileges by using fake SIDs and the countermeasures of SID filtering is given in Microsoft Knowledge Base articles 289243 and 289246.

Domain selector security options policy settings affect the security-related configuration settings of the Windows Server operating systems and should therefore be carefully set. This applies not only to the configuration relevant for Active Directory, but also to other components of the Windows Server operating system (for example, network, file system, and user logon security configuration settings).



