#M 4.212 Securing Linux for zSeries
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible

On zSeries systems, the Linux operating system can also be used. To protect the operating system in this case, the block B 3.102 server under Unixbzw. Block  B 3.204 Use Client under Unix. In addition, some zSeries-specific features are described below, which should be taken into account.



## Examples 
* For z / VM, the current patch sizes must be adhered to. Care should be taken not to work with outdated systems.
* The permissions of the z / VM system administrator are very high. He can set up or delete additional virtual machines under z / VM. This includes a trust relationship in which the administrator must be aware that he is jointly responsible for the security of the systems.
* After installing z / VM, the default login password and the preset minidisk password must be changed immediately.
* Virtual machines defined under z / VM should only receive the resources required for the respective tasks, for example mini-disks, addresses etc. The accesses are controlled via z / VM. The strict separation of the virtual machines must be adhered to.
* Also under z / VM only the required services can be started. Unnecessary services are to be deactivated.
* Security administration of z / VM must be done through RACF for z / VM. RACF for z / VM acts as a security manager and can only manage the rights of z / VM users. In addition, virtual machines, mini-disks and - if desired - terminals via RACF resource profiles should be protected. Access to these resources may only be granted to users who need these rights in the course of their work. However, RACF can not manage the rights of Linux users and their access to system resources within the Linux operating system. Linux users are controlled by the normal Linux security mechanisms after successful activation of the Linux virtual machine. Safety-critical system commands from z / VM (such as CP DIAL) should be protected via RACF.
* To manage the files and directories of z / VM, consider using the DIRMAINT utility. It allows a clear administration of user directories and thus helps to avoid administration errors. DIRMAINT's security mechanisms should always be based on RACF for z / VM. Commands and messages within the DIRMAINT administration should be under audit control.
* The journaling feature of z / VM and the auditing capabilities of RACF should be used for auditing (see also M .2.291 Security reporting and audits on z / OS).
* It should be used under standard Unix or Linux mechanisms for securing TCP / IP connections. In addition, it should be considered whether the Linux-supported KERBEROS Authentication Services or Secure SocketLayer (SSL) should also be used.
* The Linux definitions should be set in such a way that calling recursive functions can not overload the operating system (see also G 3.63 Incorrect configuration of Unix System Services on z / OS).




