#M 4.132 Monitoring the Lotus Notes / Domino environment
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Appropriate monitoring of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment is required to map the defined protection needs during operation. The monitoring contributes to the detection of malfunctions or attacks.

Depending on the defined protection requirements of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment, appropriate monitoring must be set up and documented accordingly (eg in the operating concept described in M 4.128 Secure operation of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment).

The monitoring of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment can be carried out by external monitoring tools that test relevant parameters and processes at the network, operating system and, to some extent, application level. Deep integration between the monitoring tool and the application being monitored is typically possible when using tools from the same manufacturer (in this case the Tivoli product family).

Security components such as security gateways, IDS systems, content security appliances and the like can also contribute to monitoring. Here, a cooperation of the responsible for the security components with the persons responsible for the operation of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment is required.

The Lotus Notes / Domino platform provides a range of monitoring functions at both the Domino Domain Monitoring and Server level (Domino Server Monitoring and Server Health Monitoring, built by integrating the basic capabilities of the IBM Tivoli Analyzer) , Monitoring is possible through, among other things, the server console, the Administrator Console, and the Domino Server Monitor. Furthermore, the platform provides extensive monitoring capabilities designed to support performance tuning, such as the Domino Configuration Collector.

Fault Recovery provides mechanisms that support automatic recovery and recovery in the event of an error. The use of these functions requires extensive conceptual preparation and careful parameterization.



