#M 4.234 Controlled shutdown of IT systems and data carriers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, specialist responsible, employees

IT systems and data carriers are subject to constant change in technology. Therefore, they are replaced more often than many other work materials. Before taking IT systems or data media out of service, it is necessary to clarify how this should proceed and how to handle the information stored on it. Above all, it must be ensured that neither important data, which may be stored on it, are lost, nor that confidential data remains on the data carriers.

Before IT systems or data carriers are discarded, they must be seen to see if there is any data left that they need. These must then be backed up or archived on other data carriers. It should be checked that all data has been saved correctly. Further information on this topic can be found in the blocks B 1.4 Data backup concept and B 1.12 Archiving.

When decommissioning an IT system, it should also be checked if there is any backup media left while it was in use. These too must be deleted or made unusable if the data stored on them are no longer needed.

Then it must be clarified whether the IT systems or data carriers should be destroyed or passed on to third parties. Frequently, IT systems continue to be used after the separation, for example, discarded IT systems can be passed on to other departments, given away to employees or sold. In addition, it must be regulated how information stored on it is either saved for further use or reliably removed.

If data carriers are to be forwarded to external parties, they must be safely overwritten. Even if at first glance no worthwhile information is available, the data may have been deleted insufficiently so that there is still some residual information to be found. It must be ensured that all data and applications have been carefully deleted beforehand (see also M 2.433 overview of methods for deletion and destruction of data).

If data with high protection requirements has been stored on the data carrier, the procedures for reliably erasing this data often lead to physical destruction of the data carriers.

When decommissioning IT systems and data carriers, it is important to remember also those devices that are not necessarily perceived as IT systems, but may contain a variety of confidential data, such as mobile phones; Printer, copier or fax machine. For example, when distributing or selling fax machines, care should be taken to ensure that the internal memories for fax connection data and fax contents are securely deleted. In addition, all markings and labels should be removed from the devices and data carriers giving indications of their previous purpose, such as labels with IP addresses and computer names.

Similarly, the IT systems and storage media must be safely deleted and disposed of, whose operation and / or maintenance was outsourced. Their safe commissioning including disposal or return must be regulated in the corresponding contracts.

The procedure for the commissioning of IT systems and data carriers within the institution must be comprehensibly documented. It is recommended to use the recommendations given above to create a checklist that can be used when commissioning IT systems. In this way it can be avoided that individual steps are forgotten. It is recommended that the individual steps be confirmed in writing by the respective person in charge.



