#M 4.68 Ensuring consistent database administration
Initiation Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Database administration is at the center of the operating concept of a database system (DBS), on the basis of which, among other things, consistent database administration should be ensured. The operating concept must define all processes that are important for the operation of the DBS, with clearly defined starting points, sequences of execution and targets, as well as the roles and rights with which they are authorized to carry out the processes.

In the further course of the project, real persons must also be assigned to the defined roles.

The role description describes the roles, access rights and authority of the roles required to perform certain functions (see also M 2.132 System for setting up database users / user groups). In the database management system (DBMS), the defined roles are to be set up as user groups to which the role-specific rights are to be assigned. The user groups are assigned the responsible users via their user ID according to the role profile.

Particular attention should be paid to the following notes:

* The system administrator is a special user in the rights management of the database system, which is already available after the DBMS has been installed. In principle, this user is not subject to any restrictions on the use of the database system, which poses a risk of error or misuse. This identifier may only be used by the small group of system administrators for explicitly defined administration tasks, such as setting up database administrators for individual databases.
* The user groups of the database administrators for individual databases and thus also the respectively assigned users are in principle not subject to any restrictions on the use and manipulation of the databases within their area of ??responsibility, whereby there is a general danger potential. The rights required for these tasks must therefore be clearly defined and documented, as will the group of people who will be provided with these rights.
* In many cases, administrators also work as a user on a database because, in addition to their administrative duties, they perform user tasks or use the database for filing and administering documentation in the administration environment. In this case, for you, besides the administrator ID, you have to create a normal user ID, which is used for such work with the database. The administrator ID may only be used for administration activities.
* The assignment of a user to several user groups should be planned precisely, since the user receives the sum of the authorizations of all user groups to which he is assigned.


In addition, a clear division of tasks, binding regulations and agreements between the administrators should ensure that administrators do not inconsistently or incompletely intervene. The following conditions should be met:

* The way in which changes are made and their documentation must be specified.
* The nature, extent and reason of the changes must be described.
* Changes to database objects or data are in principle subject to authorization by the person responsible for the IT application. If this is a central database object, a change requires the approval of all those responsible for the affected IT applications.
* The timing of the planned changes must be specified and announced.
* Before making any changes, the database must be backed up completely.
* For ongoing operation, a check interval should be defined in which the documents / logs are checked for correctness and correctness (see also M 4.69 Regular security check of the database).


In order to avoid dangers of database integrity and inconsistencies of individual data sets, all database objects of an application should be placed under the sole administration of a user group specially created for the respective application. This user group may only be assigned to users who need direct access rights to the database objects of the relevant application for their task fulfillment. In addition, the database administrator responsible for the particular application should be a member of this user group.



