#M 4.170 Selection of suitable file formats for archiving documents
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

For archiving electronic documents, suitable data formats must be selected. In the long term, the data format should allow a faithful reproduction of the archive data as well as selected characteristics of the original document medium (eg paper size, colors, logos, page numbers, watermarks, signature). The currently used data formats are suitable for this purpose, their suitability depends very much on the purpose of the archived data and their source media. However, when changing the media and data format, not all structural features of the source medium can usually be mapped simultaneously.

Since it is usually not possible to predict in advance which features of the original document should be detected in a later reproduction and with what verifiability this should be done, documents are typically archived simultaneously in several electronic data formats. This is to achieve the highest possible coverage of the features of the original document. The conversion process is often called a rendition.

The following criteria are decisive for the selection of suitable file formats:

* the data format should have as long-term relevance as possible
* the document structure should be clearly interpretable,
* the document content should be able to be processed electronically,
* Compliance with legal regulations,
* the grammar and semantics of the data format must be documented in detail, so that a later migration is easily possible,
* Features of the original document (electronically or in paper form) should later be clearly detectable, even if the original document no longer exists.


Typically, in addition to a structural representation (in a structural description language) of paper documents, a graphical representation of the document is also archived. In addition, under certain circumstances, electronic signatures can be used to authenticate authenticity.

The following sections describe some typical data formats and discuss their suitability for electronic archiving.



## Examples 
* The semantics of the SGML elements are defined separately in the so-called DTD (Document Type Definition). The DTD serves as the basis for document exchange between institutions and applications.
* SGML is suitable for the independent presentation and storage of structured text documents, since the layout information is treated separately from the document content.
* SGML can be used directly for the training of structures in document management systems.




