#M 4.151 Secure installation of Internet PCs
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

When installing the Internet PC, a series of decisions must be made that affect the IT security of the system.



## Examples 
* The current service pack should be imported.
* The only network protocol should be TCP / IP.
* No services should be bound to the TCP / IP Internet access protocol.
* File and printer sharing should be disabled. There should be no Shares available.
* When using Internet Explorer, under Tools | Internet Options | Connections check the function Before dialing Check system security, if this option is offered.
* The Windows Scripting Host (WSH) should be uninstalled if this is possible with the configuration you are using. Otherwise, the file types associated with the WSH, such as .vbs and .js, should be assigned to an editor.
* The Microsoft Personal Web Server should be disabled, if possible uninstalled.
* The automatic CD-ROM recognition should be deactivated (see also M 4.57 Deactivating the automatic CD-ROM recognition).
* If the version of Windows used supports a user separation, all unused user accounts, eg. Guest, disabled or deleted. Under Windows NT, this can be done via the User Manager. The administrator account should be renamed and protected with a strong password.
* When using Windows 9x / ME, it may be considered to use a password-protected screen saver. This provides some protection against unauthorized access.
* The default operation when double-clicking a .reg file should be Edit (Open with Editor) rather than Merge. Under Windows ME, the corresponding dialog box can be opened via the Explorer via Extras | Folder Options | File types are reached.
* It should be checked whether alternative path names can be used instead of the default names for system and data directories or files. Malicious programs often look for certain files in standard directories, so that this change may provide additional protection. However, it should be noted that this can lead to incompatibilities with certain programs.




