#M 4.88 Requirements for operating system security when using crypto modules
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

When using crypto modules, their integration into or dependence on the respective operating system of the host system plays an essential role. The interaction of operating system and crypto module must ensure that

* the crypto module can not be switched off or bypassed (eg by manipulation or replacement of drivers),
* the applied or stored keys can not be compromised (eg by reading out RAM areas),
* the data to be protected can only be stored in encrypted form on data carriers with know-how and under the control of the user, or leave the information-processing system (eg in the case of grid connection),
* Manipulation attempts are detected on the crypto module.


Depending on the type of crypto module (hardware or software implementation, integration strategy in the IT component, etc.), the conditions of use and the protection requirements of the data to be backed up, different requirements can arise with regard to operating system security. For software implemented crypto modules, the use of a secure operating system is particularly important. Commercial PC operating systems are usually so complex and subject to short innovation cycles that the data or system security is hardly detectable or provable. An exception may be proprietary or optimized for special applications operating systems (eg special operating systems in crypto appliances). Therefore, when using cryptographic products on standard operating systems such as. For file encryption or email security, it is important that all standard security measures for this operating system are implemented. The safety requirements for these IT systems can be taken from the respective system-specific modules, such as for clients or servers in Layer 3.

Hardware-implemented crypto modules can be designed to compensate for or completely eliminate operating system security deficiencies. Here lies the responsibility for the fulfillment o. g. Requirements for the crypto module alone. It must z. B. You can detect whether unscrambled data is authorized or unauthorized written past the module on data carriers or other device interfaces. The user must decide which combination of operating system / crypto module is required in accordance with the security policy created individually for his environment.



