#M 4.298 Regular audits of the WLAN components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

For all components of the WLAN infrastructure, it must be checked on a regular basis whether all defined security measures have been implemented and whether these are correctly configured. In addition to the access points, these include the components of the distribution system, the elements of the security infrastructure (including the authentication server) and the elements of the WLAN management system. Depending on the scope of functions provided, the WLAN management system should not only manage the current configurations of the access points, but also those of the components of the distribution system, and should also use preceding configurations via history management (see M 4.296 Use of a suitable WLAN). management solution). Likewise, central security systems, such as the authentication server or the coupling element at the transition point between the distribution system and LAN, should be subjected to regular security checks.

In particular for installations in publicly accessible areas, a random check for violent opening attempts or manipulation attempts (especially for Access Points) should be carried out. An indication of a compromise of the WLAN, for example, is a hub connected between the access point and the distribution switch. Such setups for diagnostic purposes may only be accessible to authorized personnel and must be promptly removed after the end of the measurements.

Furthermore, the WLAN clients must be checked regularly. For a larger number, this should be done at least randomly. The first thing to check is the configuration of the WLAN adapter and the IEEE 802.1X supplicant (or VPN client, if used in the WLAN). Furthermore, depending on the system, the patch level of the operating systems, the actuality of the drivers for the WLAN adapters of the clients, the rule base of the personal firewalls, the timeliness of the used antivirus and the security settings of the WLAN are used Applications too.

If any irregularities or weaknesses are detected, they must be documented, and it must be noted how they are tracked.

In addition to the regular audits of the individual WLAN components, a revision of the WLAN security guideline should also be carried out on a regular basis. In particular, an assessment should be made as to whether the measures taken to secure the WLAN still correspond to the state of the art and whether the underlying protection requirements are still valid.

In addition, it should always be questioned whether all users are informed about the required WLAN security measures and implement them.



