#M 4.426 Archiving for the Lotus Notes / Domino environment
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Lotus Notes / Domino environment services can support a variety of business processes. These business processes may involve technical requirements for the archiving of electronically processed, exchanged or stored information. These are to be incorporated into the M 2.207 security concept for Lotus Notes / Dominant archiving concept for Lotus Notes / Domino.

The existing legal requirements and requirements of regulatory and auditing authorities must be taken into account in the technical requirements.

The implementation of the archiving concept can be realized in the operation of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment. The block B 1.12 Archiving is to be used.

The following aspects of archiving are to be considered in the operation of the Lotus Notes / Domino environment above all:

* Archiving must comply with the provisions of data protection. Personal data are to be deleted according to the defined deadlines within the scope of the technical possibilities. Depending on the type of data, other legal or contractual regulations must be adhered to.
* The validity of electronic signatures (in relation to the planned archiving period) must be taken into account when implementing the archiving processes. The archiving procedure must provide for a possible renewal of the signature.
* The protection requirements of the archives with regard to confidentiality and integrity can even be higher than those of the corresponding productive databases due to accumulation effects. The security measures for the archives must reflect this.
* Lotus Notes / Domino data is archived in proprietary formats. The use of the archive requires the maintenance of old versions of Lotus Notes / Domino or the periodic migration of the ODS formats used during archiving. In any case, valid licenses are required, which can be problematic if you use time-limited licenses (see M 2.493 License Management and Licensing Issues in Procurement for Lotus Notes / Domino). It must be ensured that access to the archives is also technically and licensably possible for the deadlines defined in the archiving requirements.


If archive systems are already being used for other electronically maintained document or data, it may make sense to connect Lotus Notes / Domino (or the corresponding Domino applications or services) to these archive systems.

The Lotus Notes / Domino server- and client-side archiving capabilities, as well as the configurable e-mail archiving administrator policy, are tools that enable archiving that meets most requirements. Here, however, it must be examined in detail whether the solutions that can be realized with these functions satisfy the legal and technical requirements (eg for e-mail archiving).

If DAOS (Domino Attachment and Object Service, available as of version 8.5) is used, the existing archiving concept and the associated procedures must be checked and adjusted as necessary, since the data to be archived is no longer held redundantly.



