#M 4.335 Safe operation of a Samba server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In order to maintain the security of a Samba server in operation, it is not enough to create a secure initial configuration. On the contrary, a series of measures must be taken regularly in order to detect any problems in good time. When operating a Samba server, the following aspects in particular should be taken into account:

* Changes to the configuration must be carefully documented, so that it is possible at any time to understand who changed what for what reason. For the changes to the configuration files it is recommended to use a revision control program (eg git, mercurial or RCS). Thus, at any time an earlier state of the configuration can be restored and it remains comprehensible who made which changes for what reason.
* After every change to the smb.conf file, the program testparm must first check whether the syntax of the configuration file is correct. Otherwise, syntax errors in the configuration file can cause the server not to restart or cause security gaps.
* The access permissions of the Samba shares should be checked regularly (see M 4.332 Secure configuration of access control for a Samba server). In particular, this should happen after software updates or configuration changes. For the files of the server itself (for example, the server program smbd or the configuration file smb.conf) checksums should be created and checked on a regular basis.
* The administrators must inform themselves about current security gaps in the software used in good time (see also M 2.35 Obtaining information about security gaps in the system). Information on newly discovered vulnerabilities is always posted on the samba-announce mailing list (http://lists.samba.org/archive/samba-announce/). An overview of all previously released security-related patches is also maintained at http://www.samba.org/samba/security/.
* The measures described in M 2.64 Control of the log files must also be implemented in conjunction with Samba. As a rule, the applications nmbd, smbd and winbind save their log data in the directory / var / log / samba /.
* For secure operation, regular measures must also be taken for data backup and emergency preparedness (see M 6.135 Regular backup of important system components of a Samba server).




