#M 4.40 Prevention of unauthorized use of computer microphones and cameras
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Many IT systems are equipped with microphones and sometimes also with cameras. The microphone and the camera of a networked computer can be used by those who have access rights to the corresponding device file. For a microphone, for example, Unix would use / dev / audio for the sound card or / dev / video for a camera. Under Windows, the access rights to the corresponding keys of the registry (HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE / HARDWARE /.) Determine who can activate the computer microphone or the computer camera. These rights are therefore to be granted with care. Access to the device file should only be possible as long as someone works locally on the IT system. If you generally want to prevent the use of an existing microphone or camera, they must be turned off or physically disconnected from the device, if possible.

If the microphone or the camera is permanently installed in the computer and can only be switched on and off by software, the access rights must be set in such a way that no unauthorized person can use them. This can z. B. Unix allows all users to remove the read permissions to the device files / dev / audio, / dev / video or, under Windows, to deny access to the corresponding registry keys. This prevents a normal user from using the microphone or camera, but can still play audio or video files.

For IT systems with microphone or camera, check whether access rights and owners are changed when accessing the device file. If this is the case, or if it is desired that each user can use a microphone or camera and not only be released by the system administrator in individual cases, the administrator must provide a command that

* can only be activated if someone is logged on to the IT system,
* can only be activated by this user and
* remove the access rights from the user after logging out.


As long as the access to the microphone or the camera is not regulated by a safe command, these must be physically separated from the computer or the computer from the network.

Computers with a built-in microphone or camera should be removed from the room during a face-to-face meeting, or at least turned off. A laptop should be disconnected from any connections to communication networks that are not needed. In most cases, this is the easiest way to unplug the corresponding cable.



