#M 4.96 Shutdown of DNS
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

An Internet server normally does not need a Domain Name System (DNS) to provide information unless it is sent via e-mail, but this is not recommended (see also M 4.97 A service per server). For most web servers, DNS is only used to enter host names instead of IP addresses in the respective log files. This conversion of IP addresses to host names could also be done later when analyzing log files. Although then the handling of the log files is a bit more cumbersome, but the reliability of the log data increases. The association between an IP address and a computer name is neither unique nor static. A waiver of DNS also provides protection against DNS spoofing (see M 5.59 Protection against DNS spoofing in authentication mechanisms) and often increases the performance of the Internet server.

The following scenario shows possible negative effects:

An attacker has their own domain with a test PC. This test PC is at the same time DNS server for this domain. With the test PC, he establishes a connection to an Internet server. The Internet server knows at the beginning of the connection request only the IP address of the test PC and tries to get over DNS the computer name of the test PC. For this purpose, the operating system must connect to a DNS server, which in turn must retrieve the data from the test PC, since this is the DNS server of the attacker domain. Instead of responding to the DNS server of the Internet server, the attacker can now directly send any answer to the Internet server itself (using IP spoofing, see G 5.78 DNS spoofing). In this way, the attacker can not only send data to the actual DNS server, but also directly to the Internet server. Any errors in its operating system could be exploited.

Note: If, for example, you want to allow access to a web server of only a specific domain, eg. B. only * .de, however, can not be dispensed with DNS. However, such access protection is very weak and therefore not recommended.



