#M 4.113 Use of an authentication server for remote access VPNs
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

For Remote Access VPNs (RAS VPNs) with many users, consideration must be given to how efficient remote access user management can be. As a rule, every RAS user must also receive a system identity (operating system user account) and be identified and authenticated when using such a user account. Some operating systems (eg current Windows versions) have an integrated RAS functionality and a common user administration. In the case of medium and large networks, which are usually divided into several subnetworks (domains, administrative areas), there is the problem in many cases of separate administration of the user data in each administration area. If users are also to be able to log on to foreign subnets, cross authorizations (cross certificates, trusts) or a central directory service must be set up and maintained here. Another alternative is that the users additionally receive a user account in the other subnet, but this complicates the management of the user data. Particularly in the RAS context, special authentication systems have emerged that can also be used for the normal authentication process during system logon. Typical representatives are for example RADIUS, TACACS, TACACS + and other LDAP based directory services.

In principle, these systems have the following structure:

* The authentication data of the users are managed by a central server.
* The program for logging on is used to check the authentication data entered by the user to the authentication server.
* For communication between the login process and the authentication server, a secure protocol is usually used.


The login process must support the use of external authentication servers. Furthermore, the network address of the authentication server to be used must be entered correctly in the configuration data of the login process. If a user now wants to log on to the system, the following steps are roughly carried out, irrespective of whether he uses a remote access connection or is directly on the LAN:

* If a connection is established with the system or RAS login process, the latter contacts the authentication server and informs it about the user's connection request. If a challenge-response procedure is used, the authentication server sends a so-called challenge back to the process, which forwards it to the user.
* The user authenticates himself to the VPN client, for example by password entry or a token.
* The login process forwards the authentication data (usually transparent to the user) to the authentication server.
* The authentication server verifies the user data and signals the login process the result of the check.
* Access to the (access) network is granted after successful verification.


By using central authentication servers, it is possible on the one hand for the authentication data to be managed consistently and, on the other hand, for better authentication mechanisms to be used than are supported by the operating systems as standard. In particular, chip card and token-based mechanisms should be mentioned here. Depending on the system, these z. B. One-time passwords displayed on a display that the user must enter as a password.

For medium and large networks, the use of authentication servers, especially in the RAS area, is recommended, as they offer a considerably higher level of user authentication security. However, account must be taken of the fact that these servers must also be administered and maintained. An authentication server must be placed in the network in such a way that it can be reached with high performance but is also protected against unauthorized access.



