#M 4.257 Securing the SAP installation directory at the operating system level
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

During the SAP installation, the installation program first extracts data from the installation sources (eg directory in the network, CD / DVD) to an installation directory (eg / sapinst). It also logs all activity during installation.

Depending on the installation program, the log files may also contain valuable information. This includes the information about the selected SAP system IDs (SAPSID), information about the local computer (eg IP address, computer name), name of the selected technical user. But the passwords entered during the installation can also be included in plain text. This is especially true for older installer versions.

Therefore, following the installation is recommended:

* The entire installation directory has to be saved. The backup should be done so that the data can not be accessed by unauthorized persons.
* In case of problems with the SAP installation, the backed-up data and logs must be viewed by SAP experts. These can be sent to SAP or consulted by SAP consultants. Therefore, authorized administrators must be able to access the data in this case. If the data is sent to SAP or viewed by third parties, it must be remembered that these persons will receive valuable system information. Therefore, a corresponding confidentiality agreement must be concluded.
* The saved installation directory can then be deleted on the installed system.


Depending on the protection requirements of the SAP system, it may be useful to examine the protocol data for clear text passwords prior to access by third parties and to delete or mask them. This is implemented by newer installer versions when the report is created, so that this does not affect the support performance if the so modified log files are used in the support case.



