#M 4.307 Secure configuration of directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

After a directory service is fully installed (see M 4.308 Secure Directory Services Installation), it should be in a secure state so that only authorized administrators can access the directory service in the subsequent configuration phase.

Depending on the application scenario, the subsequent configuration of the directory service can be extended by a multitude of functions that go beyond a directory service. The safety of the various functions must be ensured by suitable parameters during configuration.

Typical configuration tasks for directory services are:

* Configuration of the directory tree hierarchy,
* Configuration of object access rights,
* Configuration of inheritance filters,
* Configuration of the administration roles,
* Configuration of the delegation of administration tasks,
* Configuration of users and user groups,
* Distribution of key objects,
* Configuring client access to the directory service
* Configuration of the partitioning of the directory database,
* Configuration of directory service replication
* Configuration of the interface for synchronization with foreign directory services,
* Configuration of system monitoring.


All this originally related to the directory service software. However, it must be remembered that the underlying operating system must also be securely configured, especially as regards server access, network connectivity, and the file system.

The configuration of directory services can be extended by a large number of additional modules whose functions go beyond a directory service. These include:

* The LDAP server module that allows access to user information for LDAP clients,
* the tool that allows administrative access via a web browser,
* the console (the tool) as the administration platform of the directory service,
* The certificate server that is installed during the initial installation of a directory service server within a tree, and
* possibly additional modules used.


Depending on the application scenario and the range of functions offered by the directory service server, it is necessary to check which additional modules are required for the operation of the directory service and are to be used. Unused modules should not be installed because each installed module can cause security problems if misconfigured.

For each activated module a corresponding safety planning must be carried out. This is then implemented by means of suitable configuration parameters (see also M 2.405 Creation of a security policy for the use of directory services).

The security of a directory service system also depends on the security of the client software used for access. Therefore, to securely configure a directory service system, the client-side computers and programs must also be included. Special protective measures are to be implemented for the administrative access to the directory service.

The following generic notes should be followed in any case:

* In order to secure the respective client installation, the relevant building blocks of the IT-Grundschutz catalogs for the respective underlying operating system are to be used.
* If the client software for the directory service is to establish an SSL-protected LDAP connection, the client must receive a corresponding root certificate, with which it can check the authenticity of the SSL server certificate.
* The security of the directory service installation also depends on the integrity of the clients used for administration. Securing these clients is therefore particularly important.


It is also possible to create custom client software that communicates with the directory service through the standard LDAP interface (or other interfaces provided).

A directory service system usually consists not only of a directory service server but of a whole server network (see also M 2.403 Planning of Using Directory Services). The directory database can be distributed in the form of individual partitions on different servers. Furthermore, the individual servers can replicate the directory databases with each other. By having multiple copies of a database partition on different servers, load sharing can be achieved. In order to ensure the timeliness of the directory copies, changes to the data must be exchanged between the servers. Therefore, a replication concept must be created. Among other things, the following aspects are to be considered:

* Are the directory service servers operating in master-slave mode or is multi-master replication implemented?
* Which types of replication are configured?
* Which servers should the directory service be replicated to?
* Which information of the directory service should be replicated (definition of filters)?
* Should changes to replicas of the directory service be allowed and should they be transferred to the original (definition as type read / write or as read-only)?


Since a system is usually subject to constant changes due to ongoing operation, the security must also be permanently checked and reconfigured. Information on this can be found in M 4.311 Secure Operation of Directory Services.



