#M 4.225 Use of a logging server in a security gateway
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

With more complex security gateways, large amounts of different logging information of the various components are often incurred. In order to facilitate the evaluation of the logs, it is recommended to operate a logging server (loghost) at a central location, which records the log data of the components connected to the security gateway. The data can thus be easily correlated with one another, thus facilitating the regular, event-independent evaluation and, in the event of a failure, making it possible to locate the causer (see also M .4.47 Logging of the security gateway activities).

The problem is the placement of the central loghost, because on the one hand it has to be accessible from all components of the security gateway, on the other hand it must not allow any unauthorized access from the non-trustworthy network.

If the loghost is compromised, it greatly facilitates the compromise of the other components due to its central location in the security gateway. A central loghost in the security gateway should therefore only perform this function and not be used for further tasks (eg as an administration computer).

In connection with log data, the following should be noted:

* The central log host should store the data redundantly.
* If possible, logging should also be done locally on the individual components of the security gateway. Since this does not significantly reduce the performance of the component, this fuse should be switched on as additional fail-safe.


Another important element of logging is the alarming of defined, critical events. Here, too, care must be taken that the forwarding of the alarm messages to a central instance is possible.

The most important criterion when placing a loghost is that no additional vulnerabilities arise, such as. the ability to bypass security components. It should also be taken into consideration that the log data for storage on a central loghost must cross as few components of the security gateway as possible. If protocol data are sent via proxies, these appear in the log files with the IP address of the proxy, so that the actual sender is no longer immediately recognizable, unless the logging functions on the individual components allow corresponding identification of the data.

Ideally, log hosts are placed in their own administration network. The loghost is then accessed exclusively from the administration network.



If no separate administration network is available, the loghost must be operated in the productive network. Depending on the structure of the security gateway, this results in two recommended placements for a central loghost:



## Examples 
* Is access to the log server from untrusted networks prevented?
* Is the log server used exclusively to store the security gateway log data?
* Are the logging information stored redundantly?
* Is there a central alerting system for pre-defined critical events?
* Is there a concept for determining the required network-technical placement of the protocol server based on the structure of the security gateway?




