#M 5.137 Use of NAT for VoIP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

NAT (Network Address Translation) allows the translation of private / internal IP addresses into public / external IP addresses. In this address transformation, a corresponding NAT gateway translates private source IP addresses and the associated private source ports into public source IP addresses with public source ports. In order for the NAT gateway to forward back packets or incoming packets directed to the public IP address to the correct internal host, it maintains a corresponding mapping table between public IP addresses / ports and private IP addresses / ports.

NAT modifies the source IP address and the source port number in the UDP or TCP headers of the media stream. The information about the source IP address and the source port in the message part of the signaling message, however, remain unchanged. As a result, no media streams can be sent to a VoIP phone located behind a NAT gateway. VoIP devices that are on the Internet can not send a media stream to a VoIP phone that is behind a NAT gateway because the private IP address is not being routed to the Internet.

The following sections describe ways to enable VoIP operation in a NAT environment.



## Examples 
* Is NAT (Network Address Translation) used in the context of VoIP operation?
* Is the VoIP architecture protected according to the state-of-the-art security policy?
* Is the communication of VoIP components implemented using state-of-the-art procedures and protocols?




