#M 5.154 Secure configuration of a network for virtual infrastructures
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Virtualization servers need a variety of communication relationships. On the one hand, these are connections to management networks and, if necessary, connections to storage networks in order to be able to use the corresponding resources of the data center. On the other hand, they provide the respective network connections for the virtual IT systems.

Different techniques are used for the different virtualization products. In some virtualization products, the individual virtual IT systems are each assigned their own network cards, which are directly connected to the networks to be used. These can be virtual or physical network cards.

Other virtualization products mimic complete network infrastructures within the virtualization server. For this purpose, virtual switches are created which, on the one hand, provide the necessary network connections for the virtual IT systems and, on the other hand, control the transition of the virtual network into the physical network. It is also possible to create purely virtual networks that do not have a transition to the physical network.

Some of the virtualization solutions also support the ability to establish a logical segmentation in addition to a physical one, such as a virtual local area network (VLAN).

Furthermore, the way in which the communication between virtual IT systems is implemented among each other is very different. Part of the communication between virtual IT systems in different networks on the same virtualization server through the physical network is headed (example: Citrix XenServer, Sun VirtualBox or VMware ESX), sometimes this communication is always passed through within the virtualization layer, so that no routing authority au Outside the virtualization layer is involved in the communication (Sun Solaris Containers).

For a secure configuration of the networks of the virtualization server, there are several aspects to consider:

* The management interfaces of the virtualization servers should be connected in a separate network. This is physically or logically separate from the network in which the virtual IT systems are operated. A logical network separation exclusively by means of VLAN without further measures is not sufficient here, as the virtualization servers exchange valuable information via the management interfaces.
* Authentication must be enforced for all users of the administration interfaces, anonymous access must not be allowed. The transmission of the authentication data should also be encrypted. Furthermore, the management interfaces should be protected by local packet filters on the virtualization server itself.
* In networks used for storage network access, the targets (= hard disk) and initiators (= server) can be accessed. As a result, initiators or targets falsified to the virtualization servers or the virtual IT systems can be presented. Therefore, the access to resources of the storage networks is to be secured via a suitable authentication method. The networks used for this purpose must also be separated from the networks of the virtual IT systems. See also M 5.130 Securing the SAN by Segmentation.
* If functions such as migration at runtime (VMotion, XENmotion, live migration) are used in a virtualized infrastructure, the runtime environment of the virtual IT systems is transported via the network from one virtualization server to another. In this case, all data processed in the IT system is transmitted via the network. These data may be highly vulnerable. For this reason, the network used for this purpose should also be separated.
* The communication of the virtual IT systems with other virtual or physical IT systems should be planned in detail. It must be ensured that existing security guidelines are observed. Security gateways or monitoring systems existing in the network can not be bypassed with the means of virtualization. This applies in particular to virtualization products in which network traffic between virtualized IT systems is not necessarily routed via physical networks (see above, examples: SUN Solaris Containers and VMware ESX Server).
* If virtual IT systems need to be connected to multiple networks, it must be ensured that no undesired network connections can be established via them. In particular, it should not be possible to establish any connections between the virtualization server's management networks and the networks of the productive virtual IT systems in order to prevent compromising of the virtualisation servers due to a compromised virtual IT system.
* In virtual infrastructures virtual security gateways (virtual firewalls) can also be operated. However, the use of such gateways directly at the perimeter of the own network and thus for the separation of networks of very different protection requirements should be checked exactly. On the other hand, virtual security gateways are conceivable for the separation of internal networks with not very different protection requirements. The planning of such gateways must be carried out carefully. It must be borne in mind that, depending on the virtualization product chosen, network traffic through the virtualization layer will not be routed as it might be expected. In addition, there is no guarantee that the protection function of the virtual security gateway for other virtual or physical IT systems will still exist even if the virtualization servers themselves have been compromised. A bypass of these security gateways is very easy to implement after a compromise of the virtualization server. Since security gateways are often also the target of attacks, it should be avoided to protect the virtualization server itself exclusively through virtual security gateways. In such cases, a suitable distribution of the participating networks over security gateways is necessary. See also B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall).
* Virtual IT systems are to be treated in the same way as physical IT systems with regard to their network integration and their protection through security gateways, as the virtualization servers usually do not offer them additional protection.




