#M 5.157 Secure use of social networks
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer, Supervisor, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: users

Social networks are platforms made available on the Web, such as MySpace, LinkedIn, Facebook or Xing, which are conceptually similar but differ in content. The content is designed by the respective users themselves. So social networks are used to find old friends or work colleagues to be found themselves, or even to make professional contacts. In addition to the creation of a profile with which the online identity is presented, the platforms are all about networking the users with each other. This linkage is due to social interactions between users and is stored in the software's database using specialized platform features.

Social networks are used for communication and data exchange between users. Depending on the orientation of the platform, in addition to personal data, photos or other information can be set and various applications used.

To become part of a social network, you need to register with the appropriate platform. Besides user name and password, further personal information is often collected. Which other personal or official information is revealed depends on the respective user and the intention of the use. Especially the multitude of information about one's own person serves to be perceived in the networks and to be able to participate. However, it must also be made clear to every user that all information about users can be used as a basis for social engineering attacks (see also M 3.5 Safety training).

With the background information, attackers can try to gain the trust of their victims and persuade them to take further action, for example to open certain files. Any information that a user puts on the Internet should therefore be carefully weighed. Information, including photos, videos, and quotes, can be easily posted on the Internet, but can also be shared quickly by other people.

Because of this, every user of a social network should be informed about the service provider, especially about the contractual basis that must be accepted when using these services. For example, it should be checked

* which personal data must be provided for registration with the service provider,
* whether and how the service provider protects the user data against unauthorized access, eg. whether the virtual identity is protected against misuse by third parties,
* how the data transfer is secured, so if z. B. the communication is basically or partially encrypted (typically with SSL), whether passwords or session cookies are encrypted exclusively,
* whether the service provider creates user profiles and passes them on to third parties, eg. to finance the platform through targeted advertising,
* whether the user data can be deleted at any time independently and completely.


Before logging in to a social network, users should examine how the platform handles privacy. If users can independently configure privacy options, they should be set as restrictively as possible. The possible releases of data for other users should be handled restrictively, eg z. in a public profile only the most necessary information is set.

Social network users should think carefully about which contacts they accept and what other users they share what information with. Only the information required for interaction on the respective platforms should be entered everywhere. Information about third parties should only be disclosed after consultation with them.

The handling of social networks should be clearly regulated in a public agency or a company. There are several variants:

* Institutions may decide to ban the use of social networks in general. This must of course be announced to the employees. The ban may also be technically assisted by filtering with respect to the known providers, taking into account that users can always find new ways to access such services.
* There are also institutions in which social networks are officially released for official purposes, for example to obtain up-to-date information from interest groups and bodies, or to actively market their own services or products via social networks.


A public authority or a company should establish clear rules describing

* whether social networks can be used for business purposes,
* Under what conditions they may be used for official purposes (eg in the transmission of information, protection against malicious software, use of pseudonyms, etc.),
* what employees should consider when using social networks.


Users should not mix business and personal use of social networks and know the rules of their institutions.



