#M 5.165 Disable unused Mac OS X network services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Unnecessary network services should be disabled as they can consume system resources and represent an attack target. This requires administrator rights. If changes have been made to the system services, these must be documented. Furthermore, it should be checked regularly, if only according to the security concept permissible services are activated and can be reached via the network.

The available services are listed in the system settings under the menu item Shares. As a rule, a client operating system should offer no or only a few services in a network. Depending on the area of ??application, an individual decision must be made whether and which service should remain activated.

Services used for management, such as the Apple Remote Desktop (TCP port 5900), remote login (SSH access, TCP port 22), or virus protection network services, must remain enabled.

If the service Bonjour is not used in a network, it should also be deactivated as it occupies system resources and represents another point of attack.

The following commands disable the Bonjour network service:

sudo launchctl unload -w /System/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.apple.mDNSResponder.

plist

sudo launchctl unload -w / System / Library / LaunchDaemons / com.apple.mDNSResponderHelper.

plist

If the Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) is not used, it should also be disabled. The means to disable IPv6 can be found in the system settings under Network, in the other options of the respective network card.

When the operating system is updated, services may be inadvertently re-enabled. Therefore, after each update, it should be checked if the services are still disabled.



