#M 5.115 Integration of a web server in a security gateway
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Integrating a web server into a security gateway is in many cases critical because a web server often places high demands on network bandwidth. In addition to ensuring availability, it is also important to choose the right server placement option to protect against targeted attacks, as Web servers are particularly vulnerable to attack because of their high visibility, and security vulnerabilities have often been found in Web server programs in the past ,

Here are three scenarios for how to integrate a web server into a security gateway:

* Integration without using a reverse proxy
* Integration using a reverse proxy to reduce the load on the web server.
* Integration using a reverse proxy and with additional protection by another packet filter.


In all three cases, the server will not be placed behind an ALG, but only behind a packet filter, as the ALG may under-impact the overall throughput of the system too much. Therefore, the recommendations are applicable even if only a simple security gateway (consisting of a packet filter only) is used. The web server should under no circumstances be located in the internal network.

However, in the case of special security requirements, it may still be necessary to secure the web server with its own ALG, which protects the web server and the web applications operated on it from certain kinds of attacks (cross-site scripting, command injection, and the like). Corresponding ALGs exist from different providers. For more complex web applications, it is recommended to use such an ALG.



## Examples 
* Do packet filtering rules limit the incoming and outgoing connections of the web server to the required size?
* Affects web server using a reverse proxy: Is the reverse proxy set up in the same DMZ as the web server if high data throughput is required?
* Affects web server using a reverse proxy: Is direct access to the web server from the non-trusted network prevented by an external packet filter?
* Affects web server and reverse proxy in separate DMZ: Is the reverse proxy separated from the web server by an additional packet filter?




