#M 5.151 Secure configuration of the Samba Web Administration Tool
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Samba Web Administration Tool (SWAT) is a web-based configuration program that has been an integral part of Samba since version 2.0. Depending on the distribution, SWAT will be installed with the Samba server packages or offered as optional packages. SWAT is started over an Internet D mon (for example inetd or xinetd) and can not be operated as a separate D mon.

When using SWAT, it should be taken into account that SWAT completely rewrites the smb.conf file when making changes. All comment lines as well as all parameters whose values ??correspond to the default values ??are deleted. The include and copy parameters are also removed. The use of SWAT is not possible if one of these parameters is required. Parameter values ??in quotation marks in smb.conf are deleted by SWAT after the first quotation mark ().



## Examples 
* Are administrators aware that SWAT will completely rewrite the smb.conf file when making changes?
* Has SWAT been installed or disabled if SWAT is not used to administer and configure Samba?
* Is the accessibility of SWAT limited to requests from the local computer if SWAT is only used to administer and configure a local Samba server?
* Is the accessibility of SWAT limited to requests from trusted hosts, if SWAT is used for administration and configuration of remote hosts?
* Is SWAT used only over trusted networks, or is the communication encrypted?
* Is SWAT used over a secured HTTPS connection?




