#M 5.1 Remove or disable unneeded lines
Responsible for initiation: Head of Domestic Engineering

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, building services

Unnecessary lines are those lines which are no longer required for the function of the building due to changes in use or modernization measures. As a general rule, these pipes should be completely removed in order to limit the fire loads in the building to the minimum necessary and to fill the existing lines only to the required extent. When removing cables, make sure that the fire barriers are properly closed again after the cables have been removed.

Which lines are no longer required may only be decided upon after careful consideration by the responsible organizational unit. The decision has to be documented.

If the changes to the cabling infrastructure are carried out in parallel to the service operation, the measures must be supported in such a way as to reduce the disruption to service operations to a minimum. For this purpose, weekend and night work may also have to be scheduled. If there is not enough space in the existing lines for the old and new cables, then new tracks for the new cables have to be installed to keep the switching time from the still running old infrastructure to the new infrastructure as short as possible like to shape.

Routes and cables that can be usefully used as reserve with the existing technology are to be maintained in a condition that is ready for operation.

No longer required routing and patching in distribution boards are to be built back and deleted in the documentation.

Even cables that are no longer needed should be removed as far as possible. If this is not possible, because the cables z. B. under plaster, they must be deactivated and secured by short-circuiting.

In the operating documentation, all changes must be documented in an auditable form.

It is advisable to expertly examine the changes at reasonable intervals and in any case after conducting the work. These tests are to be logged.



