#M 5.64 Secure Shell
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Without special enhancements, the telnet and ftp protocols provide only rudimentary mechanisms for authentication. As a rule, a simple query of the user ID and password is carried out, which then - as well as the user data - are sent in clear text. The confidentiality of the authentication and user data is therefore not secured. The related protocols rsh, rlogin, and rcp, which are often grouped under the term r services, have similar security deficiencies.

Secure Shell (ssh) can be used as a replacement for the r services, with extensive features for secure authentication and confidentiality and integrity. For this purpose, a hybrid encryption method, ie a combination of asymmetric and symmetric encryption, is used. The secure shell is located at layer 7 (application layer) of the ISO / OSI reference model, although other protocols such as the X11 protocol, which is used by the graphical user interface X-Window, can also be transported via ssh.

Currently, Secure Shell is based on three protocols that build on each other and each has an Internet draft.

* The lowest protocol is the Transport Layer Protocol. This protocol provides most of the security features of ssh, including host-level authentication, encryption, and data integrity protection. The cryptographic algorithms can be negotiated between the communication partners.
* The middle protocol is the User Authentication Protocol. This allows authentication at the user level, although here too the procedure can be negotiated. If a simple transmission of user ID and password is used for the authentication, the confidentiality of this information is secured against the communication path by the underlying Transport Layer Protocol. However, the authentication is recommended by a public-key method.
* The Connection Protocol builds on the two previous protocols and allows the construction of several logical Nutzkan len. The data on these user channels is shared over a single secure SecureShell connection.


For all common Unix operating systems, there are implementations of both ssh clients and ssh servers. In addition, ssh clients are available for Windows, Mac OS and Java applets, among others.

In principle, the use of Secure Shell is recommended if the functions of the r services are used via communication channels that are not adequately protected against compromise and / or manipulation (for example, via the Internet). Here are some hints for the safe use of ssh.

Of particular importance is the threat of so-called man-in-the-middle attacks. In doing so, the attacker filters all traffic between the communication partners and passes on fake public keys. If the communication partners are unable to test the public keys, the attacker can read and manipulate all traffic by decrypting the data themselves, then reading or modifying, and finally with encrypted another key and forwarded. This can be prevented with the help of a suitable key / certificate management. However, when deploying Secure Shell, a compromise solution is often used that allows the use of ssh without any additional infrastructure. When a connection is established to a host whose public key is not yet known, it is sent via the insecure network and stored in a local database. For all subsequent connections with this host, its public key can then be checked against the local database. In the context of the security concept, it must be clarified whether this method, which offers reduced security against man-in-the-middle attacks, is sufficient for the present application.

The Internet Drafts specify cryptographic procedures that must be provided by the Secure Shell implementations. Optionally, however, additional cryptographic algorithms can be implemented. The actual methods used are negotiated when the connection is established. By choosing suitable client and server programs and configuring them appropriately, ensure that ssh client and ssh servers agree on qualified cryptographic algorithms that meet security requirements.

When using ssh, all other protocols whose functionality is covered by Secure Shell should be used, as appropriate. For example, the r services and telnet may be completely shut down to prevent the security measures from being bypassed. However, this requires that all communication partners have suitable implementations.

From older implementations of ssh, security-related bugs are known. Therefore, a version should be used in which such defects are eliminated. The compatibility between implementations whose program versions differ greatly is problematic under certain circumstances. Mixed operation should therefore be avoided as far as possible.

It should be noted that when using ssh over firewalls, a content-sensitive control of the data stream is no longer possible.



