#M 5.39 Safe use of protocols and services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

The following brief descriptions of frequently used protocols and services on the Internet are intended to indicate which information is transmitted by these protocols and thus available for filtering through a security gateway. Furthermore, it briefly describes which boundary conditions are to be observed when using the various protocols and services.



## Examples 
* Are externally sent packets blocked with a source address from the internal network (keyword: IP spoofing) blocked on the security gateway?
* Are only secure routing protocols used on the security gateway?
* Does the security gateway have status and affiliation control for UDP connections?
* Does the protocol affect SMTP: Are VRFY and EXPN requests from the Internet blocked by the application-level gateway or the mail server?
* Are SMTP Connections Encrypted Over the security gateway between trusted users and with strong authentication mechanisms?
* Is it determined with which communication partners connections via SSH are allowed?
* Are SSHv2 connections enforced and SSH Version 1 connections suppressed when using a security proxies on the security gateway?
* Is the use of TELNET avoided as far as possible and instead encrypted protocols such as SSHv2 be used?
* Is FTP only using passive mode?
* Are all FTP commands coupled to a rights management?
* Is the use of distributed file systems prevented across the security gateway?
* Is Required Access to Distributed File Systems Secured Through VPN Through the Security Gateway?
* Will the use of direct remote desktop connections be prevented across the security gateway?
* Is the required deployment of remote desktop protocols across the security gateway protected by a VPN solution?
* Are streaming protocols blocked by the security gateway, unless strictly required by streaming applications?
* Is there an additional security consideration for using VoIP that meets the organization's security requirements?
* Is the security gateway set which NNTP communication to allow or block?
* Are packets from the r services, such as rlogin, rsh, rcp, blocked on the security gateway?
* Is there an overview of the protocols allowed on the security gateway?




