#M 5.156 Secure use of Twitter
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer, Supervisor, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: users

With the micro-blogging service Twitter registered users can exchange news and information in short messages with a maximum of 140 characters. Users can register as followers with other users so that they receive their text messages.

When registering for this Internet service, first and last name, username and password and an e-mail address must be provided. The user name results in the URL to the user's Twitter page: http://twitter.com/username. The selected password must be at least 6 characters long, further specifications do not exist. However, users are cautioned that they should choose passwords that are as complicated as possible (tricky!). In order to prevent identity theft, the usual password regulations should be observed (see also M 2.11 Control of password usage).

The user IDs can be freely selected at registration. This allows the use of false identities. You can choose names of well-known celebrities or institutions and write messages on their behalf.

Twitter operators also provide the ability to tag user identifiers that have their identity verified using a symbol via Verified Accounts. This option is rarely offered yet.

Dealing with Twitter and similar web services should be clearly regulated in each institution. There are several variants:

* The institution could generally ban Twitter usage. This must of course be announced to the employees. The ban can also be technically supported by filtering on known web platforms, taking into account that users can always find new ways to access such services.
* There are also institutions in which Twitter is officially released for official purposes, for example to actively inform about its own services or products via Twitter.


A public authority or a company should establish clear rules describing

* whether Twitter may be used for official business purposes and, if so, under what conditions (eg when passing on information, using pseudonyms, etc.) and
* what employees should consider when using the Twitter for business or private purposes.


As with all internet services, the terms and conditions of the business should be carefully checked before registering as a user to see if the above conditions are acceptable from their own point of view. The terms and conditions of the Twitter service permit the use of the specified user information for advertising purposes.

Twitter is known for its fast and widely disseminated information. Frequently, information is passed on via Twitter in such a short time that, for example, intelligence services were unable to obtain or verify it. Twitter messages are often shared unauthorized or unproven. Before any disclosure or use of messages, therefore, their veracity should be checked.

Due to the text restriction to 140 characters often only short URLs are passed on Twitter. Short URLs usually have a format that is z. B. looks like this: http://kurzurl.com/d9khqp. Behind this link hides the actual link to which reference should be made. This can be problematic because it does not tell at a glance where the short URL goes and where users can be lured to websites with malicious software.

Short URLs could also be exploited by so-called spam followers. These include machine-generated accounts that generate messages from time to time. These contain like accounts of real people news and link tips. The links in the various messages suggest different and interesting link destinations, but always refer to the same landing page. So that users actually click on the links, many accounts are created and linked to each other or provided with followers. These accounts are tracking more real accounts and are hoping for many clicks on the corresponding links. In this way, spam is additionally distributed by active accounts of legitimate Twitter members.



