#M 5.163 Restrictive rights assignment on terminal servers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Within multi-user environments, such as terminal server systems, it is very important to protect users against each other and against risky system functions. In order to ensure trouble-free operation and to protect the confidentiality of data processed within individual user sessions, the rights must be granted restrictively.

The Terminal Server service, for example under Microsoft Windows Server 2003, already offers selection options during the installation in order to establish various protective measures in the operating system. These settings also work when Citrix Presentation Server is used as a terminal server solution.

The safer basic installation must always be used as a starting point for further protective measures. It is selected by the option Full-Security instead of Relaxed-Security. In this context, Relaxed Security should be understood as a compatibility mode that enables the operation of applications that have not been developed for current terminal server environments. However, using this mode results in security-critical file permissions in system directories and extensive accessibility to the registry (Windows registry).

The use of the Relaxed Security mode should therefore be considered only in justified exceptional cases and after a detailed assessment of the individual's risk situation. In any case, the rights for applications and their users are subsequently reduced to the absolute minimum. For example, tools may be used to monitor file operations of the software and log access to the registry.

In addition, besides the application that requires this insecure mode, there should be no other application deployed on the same terminal server.

Applications on terminal servers can be used in a variety of ways. In addition to access to a complete user interface (desktop) via terminal software, there is also the option of submitting a list of authorized applications. Only these are then available to the user within the terminal server client or on a web server.

This publication mechanism prevents operating errors and makes it easier for users to complete their tasks, but does not prevent users from gaining access to programs outside the release list. Unauthorized applications may, for example, be executed without special precautions via user dialogs in permitted applications.

In order to successfully secure terminal server systems, further points have to be considered. Terminal server systems should be installed on dedicated, possibly virtualized, systems to limit the complexity of access and accessibility to other services. For example, users of terminal servers under Microsoft Windows Server 2003 need to have local logon rights. When using the terminal server as the domain controller, this leads to a privilege escalation of the users to all management servers, including machines that are not terminal servers. Consequently, services installed and not required in the default configuration should be disabled. This also applies to any existing routing functionality.

New application servers have to be brought up to the latest software version before commissioning and it is strongly recommended to isolate them from the network first. In addition, unused user accounts and groups must be removed or deactivated.

All terminal server systems should have anti-virus products installed.

Applications with different protection and security levels should be deployed on different terminal servers. If this is not possible or reasonable for organizational reasons, all applications such as the installed software must be treated with the highest protection requirements.

It is to use a file system that differentiates access rights at the user level, such as. B .:

* Write and read accesses to unneeded files must be prevented (eg by simply deleting the obsolete file or by setting appropriate authorizations).
* The use of references within the file system (eg symbolic links, NTFS joins etc.) should be avoided if possible.
* Administration tools may only be run by authorized administrators.
* The authorization to subsequently install software may be the sole responsibility of the administrators.
* In terminal server environments, the ability to run software in a foreign user context, such as commands such as runas or sudo, should be disabled.
* Especially on systems with high protection requirements, authorized programs should be kept in a positive list. Only software that is released there is then executed by the operating system. This can be realized with Windows operating systems, for example with Appsec. For Linux, extensions such as SELinux and AppArmor and for Solaris systems RBAC (Role based access control) and Privileges can be used. There are also some other third-party solutions that sometimes go beyond the scope of the operating system tools.


A session mirroring, also called shadowing, means viewing a foreign user session. The screen output of the user is displayed on one or more other clients, possibly also the control of the input devices can be adopted. This procedure is mainly used for training or administration purposes. A meeting reflection may not be made without the user's knowledge or approval. This is to be enforced administratively in the configuration of the terminal server.

For the protection of downstream systems, such as systems for data storage or other processing systems, further measures with the focus on the communication of the applications to their backends have to be realized.

The application scenarios specialized applications and general applications are intended to illustrate this.





## Examples 
* Are users' access rights to terminal server resources restricted?
* Are the access rights of terminal server users restricted to downstream services (backends)?
* Is only one application available on a terminal server for terminal servers operating in the insecure Relaxed Security mode?
* Are Terminal Server services installed only on dedicated, possibly virtualized, systems?
* Have all services, user accounts, and groups installed on the default configuration been removed or disabled on terminal servers?
* Have anti-virus products been installed on all terminal server systems?




