#M 5.14 Securing internal remote access to PBXs
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, TK-Anlagenverantwortlicher

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

PBX systems often have remote maintenance access for management functions. These accesses can be used for administration and maintenance as well as for other management tasks, such as alarm signaling and processing. Such remote accesses are useful and sometimes indispensable especially for complex PBX systems.

Often the remote access can be used via the following techniques:

* Access via an IP network
* Direct dial-in via Direct Inward System Access (DISA)
* Access via dedicated management ports via modem


The use of remote access should be restricted as much as possible. Furthermore, all access and all activities should be logged during an administration session.

Basically, you can relax

* a remote access in your own telecommunications system (internal access) and
* Remote access from other networks (external access, see M 5.15 Securing external remote access of PBXs)


differ.

With internal remote access, the protection of remote maintenance within a PBX system is considered. In this context, a system network is understood as an overall system consisting of several separate plant sections, which is connected to one another via its own line network. If this connection is made via public switching equipment, the measures described under M 5.15 Securing external remote access of PBXs must also be implemented. When networking via closed user groups within public networks or via virtual private networks (VPN), the measures for internal remote access and, if possible, the points marked with * should be excluded from the measures for external remote accesses are implemented.

The most important aspect in securing the internal remote access is to effectively prevent intrusion attempts from external networks and, if necessary, to be able to recognize them. Furthermore, access from its own network should be limited to the authorized entities and persons. Depending on the type of access technology, different methods exist for this.



## Examples 
* No official authorization for the connection of modem 2 The modem connection, over which the access to the administration port of the plant is led, should under no circumstances be entitled to office! This minimum requirement should be checked first. This prevents the modem from being dialed directly from outside.
* Securing the Telephone Number of the Maintenance Port of Modem 2To complicate misuse from the outset, the telephone number of the maintenance device should not be published in telephone directories. Their knowledge should be reserved for those who need it immediately.
* Using leased lines (optional) The use of dedicated, non-switched leased lines for remote connections is one of the safest ways to prevent remote access to the remote access. As this method is usually very expensive, it will only be used in exceptional cases.




