#M 5.32 Safe use of communication software
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

The security of computer access via modem depends decisively on the communication software used.

Nearly every communication software provides the ability to store phone numbers and other data from communication partners. These are personal data that must be protected accordingly.

Passwords for access to other computers or modems should not be stored in the communications software, even if it may seem comfortable. Anyone who has access to the IT system and the communication software can then gain access to other systems under a different user name (see also M 1.38 Suitable Setting Up of a Modem and M 2.8 Access Rights).

Numerous communication programs offer the possibility to run the data transmission in the background and thus unobserved, z. under Windows. This should only be used by trustworthy communication partners, since in this case a communication partner cancels the file transfer and u. U. other data than agreed by or to the local computer could transmit. This could, for example, introduce computer viruses onto the local computer or copy confidential data. There are also transmission protocols that allow full-duplex transmission, ie simultaneous transmission and reception. Such transmission protocols should only be used with trustworthy communication partners, since this corresponds to a data transmission in the background.

If the communication software has password protection or logging functions, it must be activated.



