#M 5.128 Securing the SAP ALE (IDoc / BAPI) interface
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The Application Link Enabling Interface (ALE) is used as a communication mechanism to integrate business processes across multiple SAP systems or other external systems. Business data and system data (eg when using the central user administration) are transported between the sender and receiver systems via the interface. Processing is automated in the receiver systems. Therefore, the ALE interface must be protected. The following should be noted:

* ALE uses the RFC protocol (more precisely: transactional RFC, tRFC) for data transmission. Therefore, all RFC-specific security measures must be implemented (see M 5.126 Securing the SAP RFC Interface).
* ALE destinations in the sender system must be protected, since authentication information must be stored here (see M 4.263 Securing SAP destinations).
* ALE authorizations in the receiver system are restrictive (see also M 4.261 Secure handling of critical SAP authorizations).
* ALE administration privileges may only be assigned to authorized administrators.
* For the user IDs that are entered in the sender systems for ALE destinations, there must be no ALE administration authorizations in the receiver system.
* User IDs that are entered in sender systems for ALL destinations must be of type Communication in the receiver system.
* Normal users may not have ALE permissions.
* For external non-SAP systems, the authentication information used to access the ALE interface must be protected. The information should only be accessible to the system components or ALE administrators.


Notes on further information on securing the ALE interface can be found in M 2.346 Using the SAP documentation.



