#M 5.74 Maintaining the fax server address books and distribution lists
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, fax post office

Most fax servers offer both central and individual address books. Central address books are available to all users of a fax server and should be maintained centrally by the fax post office. Individual address books can be created by any user, but are usually only available to the creator.

In particular, the central address books should be protected against unauthorized changes. For this purpose, either via the fax server application or if this is not possible, the authorizations can be granted by means of the operating system such that only the fax post office can change the central address books.

Regularly the integrity and timeliness of the central address books should be checked by the fax post office. Most fax servers allow groups of recipients in the address books to be grouped together. If an attacker succeeds in manipulating such groups, he or other unauthorized persons may be aware of confidential fax transmissions. Therefore, the fax post office should also regularly check the association of recipients with the individual groups for up-to-dateness. If data is exchanged via the fax server by fax in an organization between the workstations, internal address books must also be kept up to date by the fax post office.

In addition, users should be required to regularly check the entries they use. This applies to both central and individual address books.

The fax server uses distribution lists to forward incoming faxes to the recipients. Incorrect assignments in the distribution lists may result in unauthorized persons becoming aware of faxes containing confidential content. The distribution lists should therefore be regularly checked for up-to-dateness and integrity by the fax post office.

In order to ensure the maintenance of address books and distribution lists, the fax post office must be informed about the departure of employees.

In order that administration work carried out can be reconstructed, the entries and changes to the central address books and the distribution lists should be documented.



