#M 5.134 Secure signaling in VoIP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Far more important than the protection of media streams is ensuring the integrity and confidentiality of signaling information when using VoIP. One possibility for this is the transport of the signaling information via encrypted VPN channels. Another possibility is the use of signaling protocols that provide their own protection mechanisms. The two most important protocols for VoIP signaling are SIP and H.225 (setup signaling) as well as H.245 (structure of the logical channels) within the H.323 framework. The security mechanisms of these signaling protocols are described below.

In addition to these protocols, there are other signaling protocols such as IAX2, which does not have its own security mechanisms. In addition, there are special signaling protocols, such as MGCP, for controlling media gateways, which also do not offer their own security mechanisms. The safeguarding of these protocols must therefore generally be ensured by appropriate security measures at the network layer.



## Examples 
* Is the integrity and confidentiality of the signaling information ensured?
* For H.235 usage: Is it documented how the signaling is protected?
* For H.235 usage: Is the authentication data encrypted?
* If the VoIP gateway does not support the H.235 codec: Is access to the VoIP gateway restricted as far as possible by IP addresses and H.323 identities?
* For SIP usage and increased security requirements: Are additional end-to-end security mechanisms used for media transport and signaling?




