#M 5.145 Safe use of CUPS
Responsible for initiation: Administrator, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Unix systems often use the Common Unix Printing System (CUPS) networked printing system. CUPS is compatible with many other printing systems, such as CIFS / SMB (Common Internet File System / Server Message Block), which enables file and printer sharing on Windows.

The following aspects, which have been defined in the planning (see M 2.397 Planning the Use of Printers, Copiers and Multifunction Devices) or in the selection (see M 4.304 Managing Printers), must be used for the safe use of CUPS to be considered:



## Examples 
* Local operation or central print server CUPS can be operated as a distributed application (client on workstation PC with remote server) or locally. Accordingly, a distinction must be made in the configuration as to whether the CUPS client and the CUPS server are located on the same IT system or on different IT systems. If they are located on different IT systems, the IP address or the computer name of the respective server must be defined in the configuration file (client.conf) of the CUPS client. For local use, however, the loopback address (127.0.0.1) or the computer name localhost must be entered there. When used locally, the CUPS server must be bound to the loopback address using the configuration entries list in the cupsd.conf file, so that the service can not be reached from the network. Regardless of whether only local IT systems can access the printer, CUPS can be managed centrally. Services such as SSH or the CUPS web server (see Administration section) still allow you to make settings over the network.
* Administrative and status information Clients must be informed regularly about the available printers and their status. When broadcasting, the server sends a message to all print clients at regular intervals without being asked, and the print client retrieves the information from the server during polling. The information about the available printers should not be polled or broadcasted, but rather transmitted via polling manual entries, this must be disabled by the entry Browsing in cupsd.conf (off). If browsing is to be used, access should only be restricted to the compulsory computers or, if necessary, to networks.
* EncryptionIf the print jobs or status requests are to be encrypted, a protocol must be used to support this. The CUPS-preset Internet Printing Protocol (IPP) can be encrypted using the optional TLS / SSL (Transport Layer Security / Secure Sockets Layer) encryption. Encryption is specified in the configuration file of the CUPS client (client .conf) the entry Encryption required. It is recommended to set this value to Always as much as possible. In addition, TLS / SSL certificates and cryptographic keys must be provided on the CUPS server.
* High AvailabilityCUPS can be operated as part of a high-availability printing system. This requires a detailed planning of the associated organizational and technical aspects. In particular, it must be determined which basic approach is used to achieve the desired level of availability, for example failover switching or load balancing. For failover switching, so-called implicit pressure classes must be defined in the cupsd.conf configuration file (configuration entry ImplicitClasses On). More detailed information about this technique can be found in the CUPS documentation.




