#M 5.132 Secure use of WebDAV on Windows Server 2003
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Using Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV), it is possible to deploy Windows 2000 Server / Windows Server 2003 files over an HTTP-capable network connection. In Windows Server 2003, WebDAV is a better alternative to FTP because it allows protected authentication of Windows user accounts. Some additional server applications also offer a WebDAV interface, eg. Microsoft Exchange Server and Windows Sharepoint Services. Suitable WebDAV clients can be found in the M 4.282 Secure Configuration of the IIS Basic Component under Windows Server 2003.

The planning of the use of WebDAV should at least consider the following points:

* The server requires Internet Information Services (IIS).
* Although WebDAV shares can be used to process files directly on the server (the files are then automatically locked), executable programs can not be started directly from the server. In general, the planned client software must first be tested for compatibility with WebDAV connections. How exposed is the WebDAV access (intranet / extranet / Internet)? Or is it only used sporadically in the LAN, z. B. for administrative purposes? These questions affect the security requirements of the authentication process (eg anonymous, basic authentication via https, Kerberos, etc.) and the type of user administration. The requirements for securing the server itself are also affected. The result of the question may be that WebDAV should be published with anonymous access on the Internet and a high number of visitors is expected. Then the entire server would be protected by the measures for public web servers (see module B 5.10 Internet Information Server). A design-related aspect of this is that in Windows Server 2003, WebDAV must be enabled on the same server that holds the files you want. With regard to security gateways and DMZ scenarios, no separation between file server and WebDAV server is possible. Another result may be that occasionally an administrator makes a shortcut to a software image file from a helpdesk server to the Active Directory Dom  ne has to download. In this case, the administrator could, if necessary, create a WebDAV share and connect the WebDAV share to a drive letter using his domain user account (Kerberos authentication). If M 4.282 Secure Configuration of the IIS Basic Component has already been implemented under Windows Server 2003, the further effort would be low.
* Should the data be encrypted during the transmission? The simplest and at the same time a safe way for an end-to-end encryption is a secure channel via HTTPS, which is configured in the IIS. Not all WebDAV clients support HTTPS optimally. Alternatively, the use of VPN or IPSec can be considered, the effort is significantly higher compared to the security gain. In any case, a method must be chosen to ensure end-to-end encryption.
* If no secure channel (HTTPS) can be used for encryption, then the scheduled WebDAV clients must support at least digest authentication or integrated Windows authentication (NTLMv2 or Kerberos). This is also true when VPN is used instead of HTTPS. Otherwise the authentication process can not be adequately protected.
* After a default installation of Windows Server 2003, the Web Client service is disabled for security reasons. It is recommended that you keep this default and do not use the server. For the pure file transfer for administrative purposes, an HTTP / HTTPS browser is sufficient for accessing WebDAV shares. For the authentication mechanisms of the HTTP / HTTPS browser and the encryption, the same requirements apply as for a WebDAV client (most browsers support the authentication mechanisms mentioned in point 4).




## Examples 
* Is the web client disabled on Windows Server 2003 if it is not required?
* Does WebDAV access comply with the organization's authentication and encryption policies?
* Are the Internet Information Services (IIS) on the WebDAV server appropriately configured for the deployment environment?




