#M 5.147 Securing communication with directory services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

The data exchange between client and directory service server takes place via network connections. Depending on the directory service system and the network structure, the communication packets, which may also contain authentication information in addition to directory contents, are transmitted unprotected.

Different network protocols can be used depending on the operating system installed. As a rule, directory services are accessed via the standardized protocol LDAP, but can also be accessed via proprietary protocols. The data is transported exclusively via IP networks for DLDAP.

The user authentication can be carried out according to methods that do not transport authentication data directly over the network. However, the communication between client and server is not fundamentally encrypted. It is also the responsibility of the deployed client to ensure the encryption of the communication.

If a directory service server is to be accessed from outside, a corresponding safeguarding of the communication connection between client and server must be realized, which sufficiently protects the confidentiality of the transmitted data. This can z. B. by using a Virtual Private Network (VPN).

In the case of a service-oriented architecture (SOA), all requests to the registry for the protection of service entries in a service registry must be checked for the validity of the user (consumer):

* Does the consumer use a valid certificate?
* Do the required access attributes match the local WS policy?
* Is the consumer's request signed in the transmittedSOAP message?


Only when these requirements are fulfilled, the service registry may answer the request of the consumer.

Administrators often have the ability to access the directory service system remotely. Examples are terminal services or web-based services that can be used to access system data via a browser.

Since the data that can be accessed remotely provides significant insights into the structure and configuration of a directory service installation, this indirect access to the directory service must also be ensured. Protocols that do not provide sufficient security features should only be used within secure networks, if at all. If the directory service perHTTP can be accessed, an authentication of all users must be enforced, anonymous accesses may not be allowed via this path. The transmission of the authentication data should also be protected by TLS / SSL (see M 4.310 Setting up LDAP access to directory services).



