#M 5.91 Use of personal firewalls for clients
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Personal firewalls control and prevent access to clients via connected IT networks or from clients to these networks. Depending on the type of network service and the direction of the connection setup, the personal firewall of the client can allow or reject a communication setup. For example, a personal firewall could be configured to allow all connections made by the client and block all incoming calls.

Personal firewalls can work on different principles:

* Stateless personal firewalls decide on the basis of properties such as source and destination addresses or ports of the data packets transmitted in the communication as to whether the connection should be allowed or denied. Essentially, the sender or destination address and port number of the service are used for this purpose. Stateless personal firewalls can often be bypassed with pre-packaged packages.
* Context-sensitive (stateful) personal firewalls also consider previous packets when deciding. Thus, a context-sensitive personal firewall can bring a packet under test into the context of a connection and only permit it if the connection itself is permissible. Packages that do not fit into the connection context are discarded.
* Application firewalls can check network traffic based on the application that wants to connect. For this purpose, the application firewall has a whitelist in which the applications with communication authorization are entered. Applications that are not whitelisted can not establish or receive connections over the network.


Many operating systems already include a personal firewall. This often only needs to be activated and, depending on the operating system, a variety of functions are available. In addition, various third-party security solutions (Security Suite) are offered, which include a personal firewall. In many cases, the integrated personal firewalls in the operating system are less extensive and uncomfortable than the security solutions. These on-board solutions can be activated immediately and there are no additional costs for procurement. If a personal firewall is to be used, it must be decided whether the on-board personal firewall or a solution from a third-party manufacturer should be used; mixed operation should be avoided.



## Examples 
* All clients connected directly to the Internet must be specially hardened, d. h. the potential operating system vulnerabilities must be addressed, as the client is not protected by other IT systems, such as security gateways.
* As with any decentralized software, the management and evaluation of the log data of the individual personal firewalls is complex.




