#M 5.152 Exchange of information and resources via peer-to-peer services
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Peer-to-peer (often abbreviated to P2P) refers to an exchange of information between peer IT systems (peers). Each IT system can offer or use services. By means of the communication connection established for this, several IT systems can share resources decentrally with each other. This unites the typical functions of a server and a client on an IT system.

Often peer-to-peer applications are used to provide the following services to other peers:

* Use of printers that are locally connected to an IT system by users on other IT systems,
* Access to memory areas of the hard disks installed in the IT system or locally connected (file sharing),
* Direct communication via text messages (messaging) and
* Internet telephony.




## Examples 
* A dedicated server incurs additional costs in the acquisition and operation.
* If the central server fails, the resources are no longer available (single point of failure). If one client fails in peer-to-peer services, generally enough other clients can step in.
* Neighboring clients can exchange information more efficiently with each other more efficiently than when using a server that is far away.
* Servers require more bandwidth, more CPU, and more disk and memory than clients. These requirements can be distributed to the clients in peer-to-peer networks, where unused resources can be used.
* Shared information is often available on several clients at the same time and thus redundantly.




