#M 5.158 Use of web space
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer, Supervisor, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: users

Web space (or even online hard disk) is called storage space at Internet providers. Customers are given this by a web vendor to store files in the long term and to easily access the data over the Internet. Mobile workers, in particular, are protected by this option, since they can access their data quickly and unrestrictedly from any location. These services are also gladly used to exchange larger amounts of data. However, this also poses a great risk, because access to external storage facilities makes data flows more difficult to control.

Protecting the confidentiality of the data depends not only on whether the provider's data communications and storage are adequately secured, but also on what external IT systems retrieve them, what happens to them afterwards, and where they turn get saved.

Typical problems here are for example:

* Employees use external Web storage to retrieve company data in an Internet cafe or other company. Insufficient protection of the transmitted information (both authentication and user data) can then be used by unauthorized persons to access further company-internal data stored there.
* An employee retrieves data from home to work on the weekend. Since his private PC is contaminated with malware, the edited files were also infected.


The availability of the stored data depends on several factors: availability of the Internet connection and the systems at the provider. In the case of longer-term storage of data, the business model of the provider must also be checked in order to ensure that permanent operation and constant framework conditions are guaranteed.

Speed ??of connection: If the web storage space is to be used as a storage location for data backup, not only the time required to transfer the information to be backed up to the provider, but also the time spent ben Is required to restore the backup. For a professional backup, most other backup solutions within your organization will be faster, easier to control, and possibly more cost effective.

The use of web space should be clearly regulated in each institution. There are several variants:

* Institutions can generally ban the use of web space. This must be announced to the employees. The ban may also be technically assisted by filtering with respect to the known providers, taking into account that users can always find new ways to access such services.
* The institution may officially release the use of web storage space for official purposes and set appropriate framework conditions for it.


A public authority or a company should in any case establish clear rules for the use of such services (see also M 2.460 Regulated use of external services). This should include the following points:

* Professional and private use should not be mixed.
* It has to be clarified under which conditions web storage space may be used for business purposes (eg in the transmission of information, protection against malware, etc.).
* The terms and conditions of web storage providers should be carefully checked prior to use to determine whether the terms and conditions are acceptable from their own point of view.
* The access rights to Web storage space must be specified and updated regularly so that only authorized persons can access the stored data.
* The data exchange should definitely be secured by SSL / TLS encryption.
* In addition, confidential data must be encrypted to protect it against unauthorized access.
* It has to be determined from where (environmental security) and on which IT systems stored data can be retrieved.




