#M 5.21 Secure use of telnet, ftp, tftp and rexec
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The telnet hostname command allows you to log in to hostname after entering a username and password. With ftp it is possible to copy larger amounts of data, and rexec allows the execution of commands on another computer without a previous login. For all three programs, the usernames and passwords entered are transmitted unencrypted over the network, so that they can only be used if it is ensured that the network can not be intercepted (see G 5.7 Listening on lines). All calls to telnet, ftp and rexec are to be logged. In particular, attention should be paid to failed connection attempts by external IT systems.

When using the ftpd daemon, it is important to keep in mind that, similar to sendmail (see M 5.19 Using sendmail security mechanisms), there are always new and serious security vulnerabilities that may be detected. to obtain administrator rights without a password (see CERT notification CA-94-08 of 14.04.1994). You should not use ftp versions that are older than the ones described there.

Furthermore, all user names should be entered in the file / etc / ftpusers, for which ftp access should not be allowed. These include z. B. root, uucp and bin. When setting up new users, care should be taken to enter them in / etc / ftpusers if they are not allowed to have ftp access according to their rights profile (see also M 2.30 User / User Group Setup) ).

With the help of .netrc files, automatic FTP access to remote IT systems is allowed. To make this possible, .netrc files contain the required passwords. Therefore, make sure that there are no .netrc files in the user directories, or that they are empty and that the user has no access rights to them.

The use of the tftpd, rexd and rexecd daemon must be prevented (eg by removing the corresponding entry in the file /etc/inetd.conf), or at least ensuring that tftp does not expose users to the Login directory only limited file accesses are possible (see also M 2.32 Setting up a restricted user environment). This can be checked by entering:

tftp hostname tftp> get / etc / passwd / tmp / txt

If the tftp daemon does not respond with an error message, its use must be prevented.

If it is necessary to use tftp for the startup of active network components or X-Terminals, this must be documented and justified. Also, when using tftp, ensure that the tftp daemon starts with the -s directory option. In this case, the directory visible exclusively to the daemon is to be used for the directory.

Secure Shell (ssh) can be used as a replacement for telnet and rexec, with extensive functions for secure authentication and to maintain confidentiality and integrity (see also M 5.64 Secure Shell). Tunneling also makes it possible to run ftp with secure encryption. Therefore, if ssh is used, these services should be shut down as far as possible so that security measures can not be bypassed. However, this assumes that all communication partners have suitable implementations of ssh.



