#M 5.30 Activation of an existing callback option
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Many modems offer the option automatic callback. If this option is activated, the modem, when it receives a call, disconnects the line immediately after a successful connection and calls back a preset number. This prevents an unauthorized caller from abusing this modem access unless it is reachable at the preset number. Callback is always to be used if a fixed communication partner is to be able to dial in automatically. It should be noted that the automatic callback also covers the costs of data transmission.

The required command can be found in the operating instructions, usually the command AT% S is used. Before activating the callback option, it is necessary to specify which number should be called back.

Some modems also offer the option of connecting an automatic callback with a password request. The called modem requests after connecting the calling modem to a password input. In the called modem, the validity of the password is checked. Each valid password is assigned a phone number, which is then called back. In most cases, a list of callback numbers can be created in the local modem, so that connection to the local modem can be established from different locations.

Make sure that the automatic callback is activated on one side only, otherwise the mechanism will loop into an endless loop. Callback should be activated on the passive side, ie on the page from which files are retrieved or recorded on the files. A typical example is the sales representative who wants to connect to an IT system in his organization. Here callback must be activated on the organization-internal modem.

It should be ensured that the preset callback numbers are monitored and updated sporadically.

A callback can also be triggered by the application in addition to the modem. If the application used offers this option, the callback should be triggered by the application and not by the modem. When the modem initiates a callback, an attacker can try to dial it the moment the modem wants to start the callback, thereby intercepting the callback. When the application makes the callback, it is much harder for an attacker to get the right moment.

Status: as of 2006



