#M 5.96 Secure use of webmail
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Not every institution operates its own mail server, but uses the corresponding services from external providers. Webmail is a simple, user-friendly option for accessing mail services via the providers' web servers. Webmail refers to all Internet-based e-mail services that require only a browser as client and an Internet connection for their use. These include z. B. the offers of Web.de, Freenet.de or gmx.de. Web-based e-mail services allow access to e-mail regardless of location and provider.

When logging in to a webmail service provider for the first time, the name and address of the user, the desired e-mail address and an access password must be specified. Some providers require a written confirmation of registration. The selected password is used for subsequent authentication for authentication. The user then receives one or more e-mail addresses as well as a user account via which e-mail can be received, further processed and sent.

There are a number of webmailing service providers, many of whom offer their services for free. It should be noted that these not only differ in scope of functions (eg post box size, fax, SMS, spam filter, etc.), but also the security level can vary greatly, up to serious security gaps.

Care should therefore be taken when selecting a service provider. Especially important are the following points:

* The General Terms and Conditions (GTC) should initially be discoverable and retrievable, and should be understandable and should not contain any unacceptable conditions. The latter is u. a. that data protection should be guaranteed. The customer should therefore not agree to the disclosure of his personal data, which often results in advertising flood. Likewise, serious changes in services and cost structures should be announced in good time so that customers can respond (eg divert inboxes, secure mailboxes).


* For frequent travelers a worldwide access to the post office is important. In addition, it should generally be tested how long it takes to send or receive e-mails.


* In addition to the user-friendliness of the offer should also be examined whether online help, FAQs or other documentation is available. In addition, the accessibility and competence of the support team should be questioned (by e-mail, telephone or fax).


* When assessing the security of the offer, the technical and organizational security precautions should be considered: It should be possible to access the user account via an encrypted connection, eg. Eg via SSL. The e-mail should be encrypted or digitally signed.


* It has to be questioned whether a check of the identity of new customers takes place, whether it is possible, for example, to log in under a false name or the wrong address or to select misleading e-mail addresses such as support @ .... The identity of the customer should be checked by post.


* Everyone can forget a password once. Nevertheless, it is not a good sign, but misunderstood ease of use, if one receives a new password at the hotline without much demand. Sensible security checks need to be built in here. Active content should not be accepted for access to the webmail services (Java, JavaScript, ActiveX). A virus check on and off outgoing e-mail should be self-evident.Spamfilterung should be possible.


When using webmail services, there are a few things to keep in mind:

* The password for accessing the webmail services should be chosen appropriately, that is long enough (at least 8 digits) and complicated enough (numbers, letters and special characters). The password should be changed regularly. It must under no circumstances be stored on the PC or stored on the PC. Further information on password selection can be found in M 2.11 Control of password usage.
* SSL should be used to access the user account.
* E-mail should be encrypted as possible or digitally signed. This usually requires a consultation with the recipient about which cryptographic methods and programs are available for this purpose on both sides.
* Even if the provider promises virus protection, file attachments should also be scanned for viruses on your own computer.


* Incoming emails should be read regularly. Important emails should be stored locally. In addition, the mailboxes should be regularly cleaned up, so locally deleted or unimportant e-mails are deleted. In addition, the mailboxes should be regularly stored on local media, but also the locally stored emails should be carefully secured.
* The webmail service should always be exited via the log-out button or similar mechanisms so that no other users of the local PC can access the webmail.


HTML-formatted emails can cause security problems (see G 5.103 Abuse of webmail). It should be avoided to send HTML-formatted emails or those with active content. The provider should offer the option of filtering out any active content contained in incoming e-mail. In addition, e-mail clients should be selected that recognize HTML-formatted e-mails as such so that the user does not open them unconsciously.



