#M 5.5 Damage-reducing cable guide
Responsible for initiation: Planner, Head of Domestic Engineering, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: building services

When planning cable routes, care must be taken to avoid identifiable sources of danger. In principle, paths should only be laid in areas that are accessible only within the premises of an institution. A clear structure of the routes facilitates the control. Routes and individual cables should always be laid in such a way that they are protected against direct damage by persons, vehicles and machines.

The location of equipment should be selected so that the cables connected to it are not in the running or driving area. If this can not be avoided, the cables must be protected against the expected loads by means of suitable duct systems.

As a general rule, it is important to ensure sufficient strain relief of the cables in the connectors when connecting the device cables. Sometimes it may be useful to dispense with the intended screwing of plugs. In case of excessive tensile load, only plug-in connections are torn apart and not the plug-cable or plug-device damage.

Underground garages represent a major problem for damage-reducing cable routing. The safety circuits and the long open times of entrance gates mean that the access of third parties to underground garages can never be ruled out. Due to the usually low ceiling heights, it is possible with simple means to gain access to routes running there. Trains in the driving range can be below the permissible vehicle height. Damage or destruction of the routes and cables caused by vehicles that are too high can not be ruled out.

In buildings used in conjunction with third parties, care must be taken to ensure that cables do not run in floor, ceiling or wall ducts through their areas. All duct systems must be mechanically tightly closed against the foreign-occupied areas. It is better to let them end at the area borders.

Due to areas with a high risk of fire, no cables should be laid as far as possible. If this is not possible and the functional integrity of all cables lying on the route is required, the corresponding route area must be provided with fire barriers. If the functional integrity is only required for individual cables, a suitable cable and the associated mounting should be selected for this purpose. A function maintenance cable can never fulfill the required function alone. The cable system is to be considered as a whole, this includes the attachment, such as routes, clamps or pipes. It is equally important that the cable system can not be destroyed by parts located above it without function preservation, if they fall down in case of fire.

In production plants, high inductive loads and the resulting power fields are to be expected. These are also to be considered when laying the tracks and cables. The same applies to the protection of the cables as with the fire barrier.

For ground tracks, a warning tape should be laid about 10 cm above the track. With individual cables (without tube), the installation of cable covers makes sense.

Lines must be routed so that a storm can not move them. For example, care should be taken to ensure that ducts on free roof surfaces are adequately secured at least every 5m. It should be borne in mind that in a storm, strong forces may act on the cables or cable glands. In addition, cables must be protected against mechanical damage, as objects may fall on them. Lines on roof surfaces or in areas that are covered with lamellar walls should therefore always be laid in protective conduits.



