#M 5.125 Securing communication to and from SAP systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

An SAP system communicates with SAP clients, browsers, applications and other SAP systems via the local network. There is also data exchange between the SAP system components. In all cases, data is transmitted, which must be protected. This is not only the data used to authenticate users (eg username and password, SSO tickets, SAPSSO2 cookie), but also business data processed as part of the called functions.

It must therefore be decided whether and with what protection mechanism the communication is secured. The communication methods can essentially be subdivided into the following classes:

* RFC communication: Here, the data is transmitted in plain text. Protocols based on RFC, for example DIAG, which is used by SAPGui clients, compress the data. However, this is not a protective mechanism. In addition, the compression can be switched off.
* HTTP-based communication: The data is transmitted in plain text form.
* TCP / IP communication: The data is transmitted in plain text form.


When transferring valuable data to and from SAP systems, they should be encrypted. Various methods can be used to protect the data. It therefore has to be decided which method is the most favorable under cost-benefit aspects. The decision is comprehensible to document.



## Examples 
* Which algorithms are offered? It is important to ensure sufficiently secure algorithms with sufficiently long keys. Proprietary and undisclosed encryption procedures should be avoided.
* What is the price and license model? For large companies or authorities, this can result in negligible costs.
* Authentication takes place at SNC outside the SAP system. How are the SNC users managed? Do the users have to be managed by a separate tool or does integration with existing management structures (eg LDAP server, Windows Active Directory) take place?




