#M 5.146 Network separation when using multifunction devices
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Often, it is not practical from an economic or practical point of view to use separate devices for printing, scanning, copying and faxing / receiving. As an alternative, multifunction devices, also referred to as all-in-one devices, are available that support multiple or even all of these functions in a device. In some cases, these devices also offer additional communication interfaces, for example for web access.

Multifunction devices usually have a lower administration overhead compared with single devices and require fewer connection cables (energy and possibly also data lines). Multifunction devices can usually be connected either directly or via a LAN to a workstation.

Some devices offer a fax and DF functionality that requires connection to a telephone network so that a physical connection between the LAN and the telephone network can be established through the connection with other IT systems. If this connection is not controlled by a security gateway, uncontrolled Internet access may be possible, so that unauthorized persons, for example, could access the LAN from outside. The unauthorized establishment of data connections must be prevented in any case.

Exceptions are multifunction devices with fax functionality, which do not have to be connected to a telephone network. These devices scan documents and send them over a data connection to a central fax server, which is typically also on the LAN. Only the fax server, which is connected to the telephone network, sends the fax to the actual receiver. When using a fax server, the measures recommended in block B 5.6 Fax server must be implemented.

When using multifunction devices that can be connected to a telephone network, it must first be decided whether this connection is actually required, that is, whether the corresponding fax or DF  functionality is used is needed. If the connection to the telephone network can be dispensed with, the following protective measures should be taken as far as possible:

* The fax or DF  functionality must be deactivated on the device.
* The cable for connection to the telephone network must be removed. Under no circumstances may the cable be plugged into the telephone socket.
* If the device is in a freely accessible location, the telephone sockets in the respective room should be deactivated as far as possible or the interface to the telephone network should be removed from the device. If neither is possible, it should be regularly checked whether the connection to the telephone network has not been established without authorization.


If the multifunction device's fax or DF  functionality is to be used, it must be ensured that the required connection to the telephone network does not lead to uncontrolled data connections between the LAN and external networks. The following approaches are possible:

* The multifunction device is connected to a stand-alone PC, that is to say to a computer which is not connected to the LAN. The disadvantage of this approach is that data must be transported in many cases with the aid of data carriers between the stand-alone PC and the LAN.
* An alternative is to disconnect the multifunction device or the computer to which the multifunction device is connected with the help of an additional security gateway from the LAN. The block B 3.301 Security Gateway (Firewall) must be observed.
* Another alternative is to place the multifunction device or the computer to which the multifunction device is connected in a demilitarized zone (DMZ) of an existing security gateway. In this case too, the B 3.301 security gateway (firewall) block must be used.


All these solutions must be taken into account systematically in the security concept and require additional security measures, for example to protect against harmful code, such as computer viruses or Trojan horses.



