#M 5.66 Client-side use of SSL / TLS
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

The most commonly used security protocol for web use is SSL / TLS (Secure Socket Layer / Transport Layer Security). The first version of the SSL protocol (SSL v 1.0) was developed by Netscape. Newer versions are standardized under the designation TLS in different RFCs. SSL / TLS is supported by all recent browsers. With SSL / TLS connections can be secured:

* by encrypting the connection content,
* by checking the completeness and correctness of the transmitted data,
* by checking the identity of the server and
* optional by checking the identity of the client side.


At the beginning of a new communication connection secured with SSL / TLS, a so-called handshake takes place between client and server. Here, the client and server communicate through the cryptographic algorithms used for key exchange, encryption and integrity assurance. In addition, client and server agree on the SSL version being used. In addition, the server sends its X.509 certificate to the client. Optionally, the client can also send the server its X.509 certificate if requested by the server. Using an asymmetric encryption method, a symmetrical key is then exchanged safely. For the encryption of the actual data transmission, a symmetrical method is now used, because this means that large amounts of data can be encrypted faster. For each transaction, a different symmetric key is negotiated as a session key, which then encrypts the connection.

For example, a user can recognize web pages that enable SSL / TLS-secured data transfer because the Internet address is extended by one s (https: // www ...). In addition, such websites are also marked with most common browsers, for example, by a displayed icon (key, Vorh ngeschloss etc.) or by a color marking of the Internet address.

The use of SSL / TLS is not limited to HTTP clients and servers. Even protocols such as SMTP, FTP, IMAP or LDAP can be cryptographically secured by SSL / TLS, however, this requires that the respective clients and servers support this security function.

SSL / TLS consists of two layers. The SSL / TLS handshake protocol works on the upper layer. This serves the client and the server to authenticate each other and to negotiate a key and encryption algorithm for subsequent traffic. The lower layer, the SSL / TLS Record Protocol, which forms the interface to the TCP layer, encrypts and decrypts the actual traffic. Since SSL / TLS is based on the socket interface for accessing TCP and replaces it with a security-enhanced version, it can also be used for other services.



## Examples 
* Do the deployed client products support a secure version of SSL / TLS?
* Is it ensured that the clients deployed use cryptographic algorithms and key sequences that comply with the state of the art and the security requirements of the institution?
* Is the security policy of each certification authority checked before security-critical information is transmitted over an SSL / TLS-protected connection?
* Is sufficient protection against malicious programs and unauthorized active content guaranteed even when using SSL / TLS?
* Is it ensured that new certificates are only activated after the fingerprint has been checked?
* Is it ensured that the validation of certificates complies with the institution's security policies?
* Are session renegotiation and TLS compression disabled?




