#M 5.150 Execution of penetration tests
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Penetration tests are proven and appropriate procedures to determine the current security of IT systems and IT applications.

The BSI uses two test methods, IS penetration tests and IS Webchecks. The IS Penetration Test is the procedure for investigating the current security level of IT systems and networks. An IS web check is used to determine the current security level of the website or web services of an institution.

Penetration tests are used to assess the chances of success of an intentional attack on an information network, a single IT system or an Internet presence and to derive the necessary additional security measures or to check the effectiveness of already implemented security measures fen. For safety-critical networks and systems, penetration tests should be carried out regularly.

In detail, the installed applications (web application, mail server, web service) or the underlying carrier systems (operating system, database, etc.) are checked.

Typical starting points for a penetration test are:

* Network coupling elements (routers, switches, gateways),


* Security gateway (packet filter, intrusion detection system, virus scanner),
* Server (database server, web server, file server, storage systems),


* Telecommunications equipment,


* Web applications (for example web presence, transaction processing, webshop),
* Web services (for example REST interface, SOAP API, SOA),


* clients,
* Wireless networks (for example, WLAN, Bluetooth) and
* Infrastructure facilities (access control mechanisms).


Usually, penetration tests are subdivided into black box tests and whitebox tests. In a black box test, the penetration testers only have the address information of the target at their disposal; further information is not communicated to them. By means of the procedure black box test, the attack of a typical outsider with incomplete knowledge about the target system should be simulated. In contrast, the penetration testers in a Whitebox test have extensive information about them for the systems to be tested. This includes, for example, information about IP addresses, the internal network, the software and hardware used. These details will be communicated to you in advance by the client.

However, it is questionable whether the distinction between the procedures black box test and Whitebox test still makes sense today. For example, in a black box test due to lack of information there is a higher, entirely avoidable risk of causing unintentional damage. Furthermore, for example, vulnerabilities due to undisclosed information could be overlooked.

In addition, there is a risk that in the context of a black box test, the attack of an informed Innenent ters is not taken into account.

Penetration testers should nowadays be provided with all the information necessary for the test to be performed on the systems under test in order to be able to minimize any risks associated with the test and to obtain as complete a vulnerability search as possible ermglichen.

The classification of penetration tests into a largely automated vulnerability scan as well as a largely manual security revision therefore seems more practical and more success-oriented according to current knowledge.



## Examples 
* Administration of operating systems and applications
* Network protocols and evaluation of network traffic
* Security products (for example, security gateways, intrusion detection systems)
* programming languages
* Vulnerability scanner
* Audit and administration software




