#M 5.130 Securing the SAN through segmentation
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A storage area network (SAN) is typically created by a dedicated storage network, often implemented as a Fiber Channel (FC-SAN), between storage systems and attached servers or terminals. One or more switches that are connected together form a fabric. The switches are connected to servers that are allocated memory from the resources of the storage system.

Storage systems, servers and their operating systems can be allocated independently of each other. On the one hand, different servers are assigned different (logical) storage resources on a storage system, on the other hand, a server can be assigned several (spatially separated) storage systems in order to achieve redundancy for the server and thus its applications.

As a result, the management and rights allocation of storage resources must be adjusted in the SAN. It must be ensured that no data is destroyed due to incorrect access and that servers only work with their cut-out of the storage units in the SAN. This is achieved by dividing the SAN into logical segments (VSANs) so that only the devices within a segment can communicate with each other.

The segmentation also brings with it further advantages:

* Memory components that have interoperability problems with each other can thus be used in separate segments.
* Important applications can be assigned individual ports and therefore a certain bandwidth (QoS - Quality of Service).
* Data to be protected can thus be better isolated.
* Improve scalability as new devices can not immediately communicate with everyone else.


To ensure meaningful segmentation, a concept for assigning SAN resources should be developed. The information on the current allocation of SAN resources must always be documented and available in an emergency. The current resource allocation should be simple and easy to see using the administration tools.



## Examples 
* The advantages of soft-zoning are the lower administration costs compared to hard-zoning. Changes to the hardware location or the cabling do not have to be taken into consideration as they are traveling with you. Soft zoning is therefore more flexible and dynamic, which is particularly useful in changing environments.




