#M 5.71 Intrusion Detection and Intrusion Response Systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

One of the main tasks of a firewall administrator is to analyze the log data that has accumulated in order to be able to detect attacks in a timely manner. Due to the abundance of data and the multitude and complexity of the various possibilities of attack, this results in a considerable workload. Intrusion Detection (ID) and Intrusion Response (IR) systems can help.

The aim of an ID system must be to support an average administrator to the extent that, even without a profound knowledge of Internet security, he is able to detect an attack in a large number of protocol data.IR systems on the other hand, they serve to automatically initiate countermeasures as soon as an attack has been detected.

Ideally, these programs have as much information as a good administrator and are therefore able to detect not only an attack in any log data, but also statements about the strength of the threat and the necessary countermeasures to take. At the moment, however, this is still an area that is being researched intensively, so that substantial improvements to the existing programs are possible at any time.

Intrusion detection systems can essentially be divided into two classes: signature analysis and anomaly detection.

The signature analysis is based on the assumption that many attacks can be identified by a specific sequence of protocol data. An example is the so-called port scanning. As preliminary work for an attack it is first determined which services can be addressed on the attacked computer, i. h.to which TCP ports a connection can be established. To do this, a connection setup packet is sent in succession to all TCP ports using a program. If a connection is established, a service is installed there and can be attacked. The corresponding signature, that is to say identifier of this attack, is simple: connection setup packets which are successively sent to all TCP ports.

However, the problems with this type of attack detection are immediately apparent: In what order do the ports have to be addressed and in which time intervals so that an attack can be distinguished from a normal operation? Current port scanning programs work in such a way that port 1, port 2 to port n are not addressed consecutively, but rather in random order. In addition, the packages can not be sent one after the other, but at random intervals (eg 1 s, 100 ms, 333 ms, 5 s ...). This makes the creation of a signature difficult.

A subtle variant of port scanning is to send individual packets from different source addresses. In conjunction with the above-mentioned time-delayed initiation of the packets, the likelihood that such an attack remains unrecognized is currently very high.

In the case of anomaly detection, on the other hand, it is assumed that the normal behavior of the users or computers can be statistically recorded and evaluates deviations from this as an attack. An example of this is the period in which a user is normally logged on to her computer. Works siez. B. almost always Monday to Friday in the time from 8.00 o'clock to 17.00 o'clock with deviations from maximally 2 Stunden, then an activity on Saturday or at 24.00 o'clock can be rated as an attack. The problem with anomaly detection is the definition of normal behavior. Although some statements can be made with the aid of threshold values ??or probability considerations. Whether it makes sense to evaluate user A's activity as an attack immediately on Monday at 19.10 is questionable. Also, a user's normal behavior changes to rule, so an adjustment needs to be made. But who tells theID system that this behavioral change is regular and not an attack?

Furthermore, a subdivision of the ID systems according to the type of data acquisition makes sense. This can either be done with the help of a dedicated sniffer somewhere in the network (network-based ID system) or be part of the normal logging functionality on one of the connected computers (host-based ID systems). Both have advantages and disadvantages. The network-based systems have the ability to easily detect a comprehensive attack that simultaneously affects different computers. However, it is much more difficult to detect complex attacks (eg via further intermediate stations) on a computer. In addition, network-based systems can not analyze encrypted data. For the host-based ID systems, on the other hand, that applies to their use. Extensive changes to the logging functions of the computer are necessary.

Since the data protection regulations or personnel agreements must also be observed in the automatic evaluation of protocol information, it may be necessary under certain circumstances to store this data in pseudonymised form.

Before pairing the ID, IR system and firewall, the following aspects should be considered:

* Is it possible to intentionally initiate an attack on the firewall, which the ID system mistakenly considers a real attack? A blocking of certain services via the firewall triggered by the IR system can have considerable consequences on the availability.
* The interaction between the ID, IR system and firewall should be documented in a sufficiently transparent manner. This is the only way to make sure at all times who the firewall is being administered by: the IR system or the administrative staff. In case of doubt, decisions of the administrative staff should take precedence.


To rule out attacks against an ID system itself, they should be largely invisible from the network. The simplest measure is the assignment of an IP address that is not routed on the Internet. It is also recommended to deactivate the protocol ARP for the corresponding interface, so that neither ARP nor IP packets are reacted.



