#M 5.56 Secure operation of a mail server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The secure operation of a mail server requires that both local communication and communication on the public network side be secured. The mail server receives e-mails from other mail servers and forwards them to the connected users or mail servers. Furthermore, the mail server passes on the sent emails of local users to external mail servers. The mail server must ensure that local e-mails of the connected users are forwarded internally only and can not get into the public network.

A mail server stores the e-mail until it is passed on. Many Internet providers and administrators also archive inbound and outbound e-mails. To prevent unauthorized persons from accessing message content via the mail server, the mail server must be protected against unauthorized access. For this purpose, it should be secured (in a server room or server cabinet). For proper operation, administrators and proxies must be named and trained to operate the mail server and the underlying operating system. A postmaster and abuse account must be set up (see also M 2.456 Secure Administration of Groupware Systems).

Only the accesses to the mailboxes of the locally connected users are allowed. The areas in which e-mails are temporarily stored temporarily for forwarding (eg pool files) must also be blocked for local users.

It must be regularly checked whether the connection with the neighboring mail servers, in particular the mail server of the mail provider, is still stable. It must be checked regularly whether the space available for caching the mail is sufficient, otherwise no further message exchange is possible.

The scope and content of the logging of the activities of the mail server must be specified. The log data must be evaluated on a regular basis, especially to determine whether attacks on the mail server have occurred and what impact these have.

From the availability of the mail server, no other services should be dependent, for example, the mail server should not serve as a file server at the same time. It should be possible at any time to switch it off at short notice, eg. Denial-of-service attacks or suspected tampering (see also M 4.97 One service per server).

The user names on the mail server should not be directly derivable from the e-mail addresses in order to hinder possible attacks on user accounts.



## Examples 
* Already classified as spam e-mails may not be automatically answered or forwarded.
* The sender address of the reply or forwarding must be an address from the name space of the institution. The sender of the incoming e-mail must not be used.
* It must be prevented that a specific destination (destination address or destination domain) is uncontrollably fed with a large number of e-mails. In the case of absence assistants, this can be realized by sending a sender only once an absence notification.




