#M 5.124 Network access in meeting, event and training rooms
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, building services

On the one hand, IT systems such as video projectors or training computers are frequently installed in meeting, event and training rooms, on the other hand mobile IT systems such as laptops are often brought there as well. Often it is also desirable that these IT systems can be networked with each other, with the Internet or with the intranet within the institution.

However, since foreign IT should always be considered as untrustworthy at first, an uncontrolled connection of IT systems brought by visitors to internal LANs should be prevented. As far as possible no direct coupling of brought and internal IT systems should take place. At least all safety measures described in block B 5.2 Data medium exchange must be implemented.

In principle, the following access types may be desired:

* LAN access for all room users, without access to Internet
* LAN access for employees
* Direct internet access for all room users
* Internet access via LAN for all room users
* Internet access via LAN for employees


The following describes how to assess and secure these different types of access:

From a security perspective, the best and simplest solution is to generally prevent access from meeting, event and training rooms to internal LANs. In the safest case, no such connections should be installed to rule out that non-institutional users can connect to the internal network.

However, this is not always possible. If own employees from meeting, event and training rooms are to be able to access the intranet, at least the following measures must be taken (see M 5.122 Securely connecting laptops to local networks):

* Access to a LAN should be restricted to IT systems approved for this purpose. This should be ensured, for example, by checking the MAC addresses, by using computer-linked certificates or by user authentication.
* Meeting, event and training rooms should be separated from the LAN by a restrictively configured packet filter to prevent unwanted communication. As a result, among other things, the effects of malicious software that may be present on the connected computers can be reduced.
* It must be ensured that third parties can not read or record the data traffic during LAN use by employees. On the one hand, this could be done by creating the infrastructure in such a way that additional computers can not share the connection of the employee (eg by not using hubs). On the other hand, an encrypted communication could be used, which can only be established after a corresponding authentication of the employee.
* As far as possible, no Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) should be offered for the access to the LAN. Connected third-party computers are thus not automatically integrated into the network and must be configured by hand (in-house computers would have to be preconfigured accordingly). It would also be conceivable for static DHCP that only assigns the network infrastructure information to the in-house computers identified by means of the MAC address.


Increasingly, however, direct Internet access can also be found in meeting, event and training rooms, eg. Via dedicatedDSL access. The accesses are often marked as Internet sockets. For example, visitors can access their home network here. For security reasons, these Internet accesses should not be connected directly to the intranet so that the central security gateway can not be bypassed. It must also be ruled out that a computer can simultaneously establish a connection to the intranet and the Internet. In this case, the original hardware separation of the two networks is removed. If meeting, event and training rooms are to be directly networked with the Internet, the access should be secured with a packet filter to protect the connected IT systems from standard attacks on ports. In addition, a simple security proxy can protect the connected computers from the dangers of active content and log accesses to web pages within the scope of data protection law.

It should be avoided to offer external employees access to the Internet, which uses the internal institutional network as a switching network. It can z. B. Due to configuration errors, it can never be ruled out that third-party employees gain access to protected information or applications despite limited accessibility.

If direct LAN access is prevented, it is also possible to allow employees to access the LAN from meeting, event and training rooms via a VPN over the Internet (see M 5.122 Securely connecting laptops to local networks).

To set up WLANs to provide Internet access, appropriate security measures should be taken.



