#M 5.173 Use of short URLs and QR codes
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT manager

Web pages are usually accessed through a Uniform Resource Locator (URL), which is also called a web address. The complexity of many websites often leads to relatively long web addresses, which are difficult to remember and, above all, can not be displayed in one line in mobile terminals such as smartphones. Therefore, various methods have been developed to make it easier for users to use web addresses. Prominent representatives are short URLs and QR codes.



## Examples 
* Short URLs can be used to avoid line breaks of URLs in emails. By a line break in a URL, it usually means more effort to open the sent link. Short URLs are usually so short that they do not need to be wrapped.
* To embed links in micro blog entries such as Twitter tweets, long URLs can not be used. Micro blogs have a strong character limit of usually 140 characters per entry, since micro-blogs are usually written by users on the phone and not on the PC. As a result, short URLs have become the common form of links in microblog entries.
* Short URLs make it easier to follow references and references in journal articles. Many articles in paper-based journals refer to sources from the Internet or contain references to Internet pages. Unlike online articles, they have to be typed by hand. Short URLs reduce the overhead considerably.




