#M 5.139 Secure connection of a WLAN to a LAN
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A goal in the use of WLAN components is often the convenient and mobile connection to other networks. This can be other WLANs, but also existing LANs in your own institution. Here, two safety aspects should be distinguished:

* the protection of the used WLAN components against misuse in the use of foreign networks and
* the protection of internal LANs against external abuse.


When connecting a WLAN to a LAN, the transition between WLAN and LAN must be secured according to the higher protection requirements. This generally has the LAN. In the case of WLAN connection to a LAN, two approaches are possible in principle:

* An attempt can be made to achieve a security level in the WLAN that corresponds to that within the existing wired LAN. To do this, however, the security mechanisms integrated with standard WLAN components generally have to be extended, for example, by using stronger crypto algorithms, as well as a high outlay for additional safeguards.
* On the other hand, a pragmatic approach can be adopted in which it is assumed that both the data transmitted on the radio link and the WLAN components do not correspond to the security level of the LAN. For this reason, accesses from the WLAN are to be treated like those from the Internet and thus only allowed via a security gateway. This procedure is recommended.


The better the protection on the air interface and the active components of the distribution system, the less extensive the measures to be implemented at the transfer point to the LAN must be. In any case, a complete blocking of the WLAN communication into the internal LAN must be possible at the transfer point as soon as an attack on the WLAN is detected.

The coupling element between the distribution system of the WLAN and the LAN must be at least one Layer 3 router in order to achieve an effective separation of the broadcast domains. The use of advanced mechanisms, such as a dynamic packet filter instead of a router, must be decided according to the environment of use and the need for protection.

In the case of higher protection requirements, moreover, the security of the authentication should be improved, for example by the use of EAP-TLS, so that mutual strong authentication between the WLAN clients and an authentication server within the LAN is possible.



