#M 5.121 Secure communication on the go
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Mobile devices such as laptops, smartphones, tablets or PDAs should also frequently access data from the Internet or the internal network of an institution while on the move. Usually public communication networks are used. Since neither the institution nor the mobile workforce can exert much influence over the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the public communications network, additional measures to protect the information are required.

In general, the data transfer between a mobile terminal and anLAN's institution must meet the following security requirements:

* Ensuring the confidentiality of the transmitted data: The data transmission must be encrypted with sufficient certainty. Even those who listen to the communication should not be able to conclude on the content of the data. In addition to a suitable encryption process, this also includes an adapted key management with periodic key changes.
* Ensuring the Integrity of the Transmitted Data: The transmission protocols used must provide the opportunity to detect and possibly even correct changes to the transmitted data. Such changes can be caused, for example, by transmission errors (technical problems) or deliberate manipulation by an attacker. In addition, the use of digital signatures may be useful to ensure data integrity.
* Ensuring the authenticity of the data: When transferring the data, it must be possible to reliably determine whether the communication is taking place between the right participants so that a masquerade or a man-in-the-middle attack can be ruled out. For this purpose, mutual authentication of the communication partners (for example via digital certificates) must take place.
* Ensuring the traceability of data transmission: In order to make a communication traceable, logging functions can be used, with which it can be subsequently determined, which data was transmitted to whom and to whom.


The strength of the necessary mechanisms depends on the protection requirements of the transmitted data. How adequate cryptographic methods and systems can be selected and used is described in module B 1.7 Crypto Concept.

When using mobile devices to access internal resources via public networks, the use of a Virtual Private Network (VPN) is strongly recommended. Corresponding products are available from various manufacturers and for virtually all common platforms. Data or systems with a high degree of protection need not be accessed without appropriate backup measures. If the institution operates a filter for malicious software in its network, the network connection of the mobile terminal should be routed through this filter in order to better protect the terminal from malicious software.

For access to Internet applications where sensitive data such as personal data, internal information or account data is exchanged, at least SSL must be used for encryption (see also M 5.66 Client-side use of SSL / TLS).



## Examples 
* Are the data adequately protected during data transmission?
* Is the own IT system adequately protected during data exchange?




