#M 5.118 Integration of a DNS server in a security gateway
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

The Domain Name System (DNS) is used to implement computer names in IP addresses and vice versa, and also provides information about existing computer systems in the network. This information is partly required for the correct functioning of the Internet connection, for example information about DNS servers or mail exchangers for a domain. On the other hand, domain information can also be exploited by potential attackers in the preparation of attacks. For example, if a machine has a name such as mssql01, an attacker might conclude that it is probably a Microsoft operating system running a Microsoft SQL Server.

For DNS, therefore, a distinction should be made between the name resolution for internal purposes and the name resolution externally. Internal domain information should be hidden from the non-trusted network. Computers in the internal network should not receive an externally resolvable DNS name even if they have a public IP address. If private IP addresses from the address areas of the RFC1918 are used in the internal network, they must be resolved by an internal name server anyway.

Especially DNS server products have been a source of problems in the past because of security gaps. Due to the special importance of domain information and the increased susceptibility of the DNS software as a basis for attacks, a special setup is necessary to be able to securely provide and use domain information.



## Examples 
* Name and IP address of the external mail server (MX record)
* Names and addresses of information servers offering information to the public. In this case, a distinction must be made between the servers that are located in front of the Application Level Gateway (ALG) and those that are located behind the ALG. For the former, the address of the server itself must be entered, for the latter the address of the ALG.




