#M 5.45 Secure use of browsers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Browsers are programs for viewing web pages. They are used not only on workstations, but also on mobile devices such as PDAs and mobile phones. Browsers can display and play a variety of different media formats, regardless of the operating system, but in part only with the help of plug-ins and add-ons. They can cause safety problems due to improper handling, inadequate configuration or programming errors.

A threat to local data, for example, comes from programs that are downloaded from the Internet and run without any demand on the terminal (eg ActiveX programs, Java applets or the like). Even within documents, pictures or animations, commands can be included which are automatically executed when viewed and can cause harm.

The multitude of functions brings with it complex configuration options and potential security problems. To avoid such problems, the measures described below should be implemented.



## Examples 
* Does an Internet security policy exist?
* Is it documented which browser and plug-ins are used and how they should be configured?
* Is the browser configured so that potentially dangerous file types are not executed directly, but at most stored locally?
* Are data protection aspects taken into account when configuring the browser?
* Have users been trained and sensitized to using WWW browsers?
* Have any measures been taken to prevent unauthorized installation of software and plug-ins?
* Were regulations for private internet use met?




