#M 5.75 Protection against overloading the fax server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, fax post office

A fax server can be overloaded by both incoming and outgoing faxes. Overloading the fax server may result in temporarily being unable to receive or send any further fax transmissions. It is also conceivable that in the case of overloading the operating system or the fax server application will crash and the fax server is temporarily no longer available.

One way in which the fax server overloads is when all the channels provided by the communication cards are blocked by incoming and outgoing faxes. The result is that further faxes can only be received or sent again when a channel becomes free. This effect also occurs when all lines provided by the telecommunications company are occupied by incoming and outgoing faxes.

Before procuring one or more fax servers, the estimated fax volume should first be estimated. Then sufficiently powerful components are to be procured. In addition, care should be taken to ensure that sufficient telecommunications lines are available.

In addition, the fax server's logs should be checked regularly to determine if the server is overloading at certain times or the limit of resilience is reached.

Overloading the fax server can be done by internally attempting to send a large number of faxes. In unfavorable circumstances, this can cause the fax server application or the operating system to crash. Ausl ser can z. B. a very large number of serial fax broadcasts. It should therefore be attempted in the test or in the pilot phase to determine the load limit. In order not to exceed this limit, z. B. be specified by means of a suitable service instruction, the maximum extent of a serial fax transmission. Extensive series fax transmissions are then to be divided into several broadcasts. At times of high load of the fax server should be ensured by a corresponding service instruction or by a corresponding allocation of permissions on the fax server that faxes are sent only in urgent cases. It may also make sense to send faxes as late as possible at night, which also saves on fees.

If it is determined that the fax server is always blocked by the same sender phone numbers by means of a corresponding number of fax transmissions at specific times, it is first of all necessary to determine who the sender is and what kind of fax transmissions it is. If faxes are required by the organization, it may be possible to negotiate times with senders where faxes can easily be received. If the faxes are not required (eg unsolicited commercial fax transmissions), it may be attempted to block the sender's telephone numbers via the fax server application or via the telecommunications system. However, this is only possible if the sender identification (CSID = Caller Sender Identification) is not obfuscated or the use of ISDN has not suppressed the transmission of telephone numbers by the sender. If the fax number of the sender can not be determined, the only option left is to expand the existing capacities as described above.

The hard disk capacity of a fax server can also be problematic. The danger of intentionally exhausting the hard disk capacity due to an attack from outside is rather low. A faxedDIN A4 page is about 70 kB large. Assuming today's usual hard disk sizes of several gigabytes, so in view of the fees incurred a corresponding attack is unlikely. Basically, all incoming and outgoing fax transmissions are stored on the hard disk of the fax server (intermediate). The further procedure then depends on the fax server application and possibly also on the configuration. So is z. B. It is conceivable that all fax transmissions are permanently stored or archived on the hard disk of the fax server. With this mode of operation, depending on the fax volume, the hard disk capacity can be exhausted very quickly. In this case, it should be ensured that outgoing fax transmissions and already read incoming fax transmissions are archived as soon as possible to external data carriers and deleted on the fax server. This should be done by limiting the amount of disk space available to users on the fax server. In addition, z. B. be ensured by a service instruction that fax transmissions that are no longer required must be deleted. This applies in particular to unsolicited promotional fax transmissions. The fax post office regularly checks the free space on the hard disk of the fax server.



