#M 5.79 Protection against caller identification during mobile phone use
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

In the mobile network, the respective call numbers are usually displayed to the communication partners involved. Whether this actually happens depends on the technical equipment and the configuration of the mobile phones or network operators or mobile service providers.

On the mobile phone, the function Call number suppression (for the next or all other calls) prevents the caller's own number from being displayed on the display. This option is often found in mobile phone menus under terms such as incognito or anonymous. When sending an SMS with a mobile phone, a phone number suppression is usually not possible. The behavior of the voice mailbox should be verified on a case-by-case basis, as well as the overall behavior of telephone number suppression campaigns abroad.

Telephone number suppression can be controlled for devices that support the GSM standard with the following GSM codes for the next call:

* Own phone number show * 31 # phone number
* Do not show your own number # 31 # phone number


 The phone network operator can also continuously activate a phone number suppression.

A certain protection against the assignment of telephone numbers to certain persons granted the exchange of mobile telephones and SIM maps. Thus, no permanent assignment between user and phone number or device and user is possible. The assignment z. B. but it remains an authority or a company.

In addition to the signaling of the phone number, the mobile phone number of a particular person can also be determined via public telephone books, if it is entered there. When concluding a mobile phone contract, it should therefore be carefully considered whether or in what form an entry in public telephone books makes sense. Even in internal telephone books and in individual data queries (forms, competitions, etc.) mobile phone numbers should not be thoughtlessly revealed.



