#M 5.73 Secure operation of a fax server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, fax post office

The secure operation of a fax server requires that both local communication and communication on the public network side be secured. Incoming faxes are received by the fax server from other fax servers or facsimile machines, and forwarded to the connected users when the automatic fax routing feature is enabled. Outgoing fax transmissions from the connected users are received by the fax server and forwarded to the recipient. The fax server must also ensure that local faxes, ie. Send faxes from one workstation to another within the same organization (entity), only internally and not via the public network.

For the safe operation of a fax server, it is u. a. requires that after the procurement and installation, the configuration of the operating system and the fax server application is extensively tested. Any possible error messages should - as far as possible - be subject to changes to the configuration. The pilot phase should be followed by a pilot trial. Only when the fax server is operating error-free in this phase should the release for the active operation take place. The configuration parameters, as well as any changes to the configuration, should be carefully documented.

Fax servers store all incoming and outgoing faxes. The duration of the storage depends on the features of the fax server application and the configuration. So it is z. B. It is possible that outgoing fax transmissions are only temporarily stored until they have been completed and then deleted. Likewise, it may be that incoming faxes are cached only until forwarding to the recipient and then the erasure takes place. It is also conceivable, however, that in principle all incoming and outgoing faxes are stored on the fax server until the deletion is carried out by the respective user or by the fax post office or the administrator. Erasure can also occur automatically on some fax servers after a certain period of time. For example, z. All fax transmissions older than 3 months are automatically deleted. Depending on the usage concept, regulations must be made for the deletion of fax data on the fax server. At the same time, it is necessary to regulate where and to what extent archiving of fax data has to take place. Generally, fax data should not remain on the fax server for longer than is absolutely necessary.

It must be excluded that unauthorized persons can access fax transmissions. Therefore, the fax server must first be physically secured against unauthorized access. This can only be done by the secure installation of the server in a server room or a server cabinet (see block B 2.4 Server room and block B 2.7 Protective cabinets).

To ensure trouble-free operation of the fax server, it is also necessary to specify who is responsible for the administration of the hardware components, the operating system and the fax server application. A fax post office should be set up (see also M 2.180 Setting up a fax post office). The administrative staff and the personnel employed in the fax post office are to be trained in handling the operating system and the fax server application. In order to avoid malfunctions due to operating errors, users must continue to be trained in using the fax client application.

On fax servers, users and user groups can often be assigned the following authorizations for incoming fax transmissions:

* read,
* hand off,
* Clear.


For outgoing faxes, the following rights can often be granted:

* send,
* stop,
* Clear,
* Changing the send options.


The authorizations are to be assigned in accordance with the specifications in the fax security guideline (see also M 2.178 Creation of a security guideline for fax usage).

Unless technical measures ensure that fax transmissions are forwarded immediately, the granting of appropriate access rights must ensure that only authorized users can access the corresponding mailboxes on the server.

In general, access to temporary areas in which the fax server application caches faxes before they are sent or distributed to the recipient should be reserved only to privileged users (administrators, fax post offices).

Regularly the connections of the fax server with the telecommunication system or with the public telephone network are to be checked for function. If the fax server with internal communication systems, such. e-mail system or a workflow system, is also regularly to check the function of these connections.

In addition, it must be checked regularly whether the space available for storing faxes is still sufficient (see also M 5.75 Protection against overloading the fax server). When the hard disk space is exhausted, no further fax transmissions can be received or sent.

The activities of the fax server must be logged in accordance with the requirements of the fax security guideline and the logs must be checked regularly (see also M 2.64 Control of log files and M 5.25 Use of send and receive logs). When determining the scope and content of the logging, it is important to ensure the early involvement of the personnel or works council.

Reservations against the use of a fax server frequently exist due to the fact that an IT system integrated in the LAN can be reached via the public telecommunications network.

Careful selection and configuration of communication cards, operating system and fax server application as well as a secure network-topological arrangement of the server can minimize the risk of intrusion into the network or the fax server down to a small residual risk.

If active ISDN cards are used, features that are not necessary for receiving and sending faxes should be disabled (see M 4.59 Disabling Unnecessary ISDN Card Functionality).

If dedicated fax cards are used, the corresponding features must also be examined first. Here again, unnecessary features must be switched off as far as possible.

The fax server should not offer services other than the fax service. In particular, a fax server should not be used simultaneously as a data, printer, e-mail or Internet server, or as a remote access machine. To counteract a burglary via the telecommunications network, the operating system must be installed as lean as possible. This means that the installation of services and protocols that are not required for operation is not required. Here's an example: If the Telnet service is not started on a fax server, no such attack can lead to success. When defining the services and protocols required, it must never be forgotten that many dangers and threats are first created through the combination of different services and protocols.

The secure network topology of the fax server depends, among other things, on whether and, if so, what type of firewall is in use in the organization.

A fax server has at least one interface to the telecommunications network and to the LAN. The arrangement of the fax server in the network should be such that in case of a successful attack on the fax server can not be broken into the entire network. On the other hand, it should not be possible to successfully attack the fax server from within the network. Conceivable here z. B. an attack by an outsider from the internet. If such an attack succeeds, the client is able to send faxes to the attacking organization via the fax server. This costs fees and, possibly worse, leads to reputation loss. Also an attacker is in case of a successful attack able to take unauthorized knowledge of the on the fax server (temporarily) stored faxes. Attacks of an interior decoder via the LAN are conceivable in a comparable way.

Since a fax server is usually not the only IT component connected to an external network, a partitioning against external networks is usually already available to protect the internal network (see also module "B 3.301 Security gateway (firewall)).

If there is a Screened Subnet (Configuration 1 from M 2.73 Choosing suitable security gateways) as the Internet firewall, the fax server should be located between the inner packet filter and the Application Gateway (see Figure Integrating a fax server in a firewall system ). The protection against attacks from the insecure network is sufficiently high due to the application gateway and the external packet filter. Against attacks from the internal network, the fax server is protected by the inner packet filter.



For all other firewall combinations, especially those with only one packet filter, or if there is no firewall, the fax server should be integrated directly into the secure network. If the resulting residual risk is considered unsustainable due to the need for protection, either a safeguard must be provided by means of a separate packet filter, or the telecommunications system must be configured in such a way that only outgoing connections are permitted. For incoming fax transmissions, a conventional fax machine or a stand-alone system with corresponding fax application must be used in this case, with the result that incoming fax transmissions can only be distributed to the recipients manually.



