#M 5.169 System architecture of a web application
Responsible for initiation: Responsible for the individual applications

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Web applications generally use multiple IT system components, such as. B. Web server, web application server and background systems. The basis for the secure operation of a web application must be a suitable system architecture.

When designing the system architecture of the web application and networking the IT systems involved, the following points should be considered.



## Examples 
* Web Layer This layer is adjacent to the untrusted network (eg Internet) and represents the exposed layer with direct user access. Packet filters between adjacent networks (eg application layer and Internet) should filter the traffic so that no direct access from the untrusted network is possible beyond the mesh boundaries of the Web layer. In this layer systems such as the web server should be placed, which occupy an exposed position and z. B. require direct access by users.
* Application Layer The application layer should be adjacent to the Web layer and to the data layer. The network traffic to the adjacent networks should be filtered by packet filters, so that no direct access between the adjacent networks is possible. In this network segment, systems and servers should be placed with the application logic (eg the application server with the web application). The systems access data from the adjacent data layer (eg databases), process it and make it available to systems in the web layer (eg the web server).
* Data layerThe data layer is the most trusted zone of the multilayer architecture. Packet filters between the adjacent networks should regulate the traffic. In this layer, the background applications of the web application such as. Databases, directory service and legacy systems. Access to these systems should be possible only from adjacent networks (eg application layer). The data layer is to be implemented as a separate zone and should not be integrated into other zones (eg intranet).




