#M 5.77 Formation of subnetworks
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Public sector and enterprise IT systems typically integrate with local area networks (LANs), which in turn are reconnected to other networks. For technical reasons alone, in medium and larger networks, it is usually necessary to divide several subnetworks into one.

The formation of subnetworks is, however, also recommended for reasons of information security. On the one hand sensitive data can be limited to certain areas within the LAN (confidentiality), on the other hand it can be prevented that disturbances in or attacks on a subnet affect the functionality of other subnets (integrity and availability). ,

Often, institutions often build large but simple networks that do not require additional security zones. All IT systems are assigned to a single network at the interface to the Internet, a central security gateway solution (see B 3.301 security gateway (firewall)) to protect the network is responsible. However, such a simple security architecture often offers too little security against attackers or malware because the entire network, with all its components and data, is open when the security gateway has been breached. In the face of this threat, institutions should take action to secure their network and thus the connected IT systems such as servers, workstation PCs, storage systems etc. One possible measure in this context is to subdivide the network into separate areas (so-called zones), which are then separated or protected from one another by their own security gateways (application-level gateway or packet filter). Subnetworks can then be formed within the respective zones. It has been divided into four zones: internal network, security gateway zone (ALG zone), Internet connection and management zone (see also M 2.476 Concept for secure Internet connection).

Internal network

The first zone comprises the internal network. It contains all client systems as well as all infrastructure and application servers that are required for autonomous, local LAN operation. When forming subnetworks in the internal network, it is recommended to first determine which IT systems should be operated in a common subnetwork. It is recommended to use the results of the protection needs assessment and to proceed as follows:

* All IT systems in a subnetwork should have the same protection requirements with respect to the basic value of confidentiality. This ensures that sensitive data is limited as far as possible to specially protected subnetworks. Correspondingly required protective measures can be concentrated on these subnetworks.
* IT systems with high protection requirements in terms of availability or integrity should, as far as possible, be operated in their own subnetwork. This ensures that the proper operation of these components is not impaired in the case of failures in other subnetworks. Furthermore, faults can be limited and eliminated faster.


In addition, consideration should be given to placing workstation PCs and servers in separate segments to protect servers from the impact of misconfigured or potentially compromised clients.

Also, any number of additional subnets (LAN segments) can be set up, for example, to locate users according to their roles in separate client areas or to IT systems with special requirements, for example to the Quality of Service (for example, IP phones). to operate in its own subnet.

Security Gateway Zone (ALG Zone)

The security gateway zone, except for small or very small networks, usually consists of an external packet filter, an application level gateway in the middle, and an internal packet filter (see M 2.73 Choosing Appropriate Basic Structures) r security gateways). If possible, the ALG zone should be divided into two areas (internal and external DMZ). In the external DMZ, applications should be placed that are used to provide services on the Internet. Examples include the external web server, DNS server or FTP server. External accesses should be terminated in the external DMZ. The internal DMZ should run such applications that offer downstream services. Examples include application servers, database servers or VPN servers. The upstream servers (eg, web servers) can then access computers in downstream security zones (eg, databases) as needed to provide their services.

Depending on the purpose of the LAN, other services can also be placed in the external DMZ. Depending on the protection requirements, it is also possible to create further DMZs in the external DMZ zone in order to operate different Internet services in separate security zones.

Internet connection

The third zone includes the components for Internet connection. In the simplest case, it contains a single router connected to the network of an Internet service provider. For higher availability requirements, the connection must be redundant.

Management Zone

In the management zone, all management data could be centrally collected and processed. Here, too, a time server could be accommodated, with which all system clocks in the network are synchronized.

Selection of suitable components

After subnets have been formed, the second step is to select suitable components for coupling the subnets formed. Recommendations for this can be found in the M 5.13 Appropriate use of elements for network coupling.

Recommendations for the technical realization of the segmentation imLAN are contained in M 5.61 Suitable Physical Segmentation and M 5.62 Suitable Logical Segmentation.



