#M 5.149 Secure connection of an external network with IPSec
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Internet Protocol Security (IPSec) is a standard defined by a number of IEEE's RFCs and Internet Drafts. IPsec is a set of encryption, integrity assurance, authentication, and key management protocols for IP communications. By means of IPSec, users can realize largely transparent secure connections of computer systems. IPSec is often used in business and administration for VPN implementation.

In IPSec, various security mechanisms are described, such as

* Authentication Header (AH)
* Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)


The Authentication Header allows the transmitted data to be authenticated and thus effectively prevents possible IP spoofing or session hijacking attacks. Encapsulating Security Payload enables not only authentication but also encryption of the transferred data. Since ESP can also be used without encryption and thus for pure authentication, the use of AH is not widespread.

In order to allow the most flexible connection variants, IPSec offers the two operating modes:

* transport mode
* tunnel mode


In transport mode, the IP header of the source packets is adopted and used for routing. Encrypted in transport mode, only the package content, but not the IP header. This mode is only suitable for communication connections in which the tunnel end points simultaneously represent the communication end points, for example, in the case of direct client-server communication. Since the information needed for the transmission is not encrypted, any intermediate routers can process it directly.

In tunnel mode, the entire packet, including the IP header, is encrypted to protect internal address information from unauthorized access. An attacker can only detect the tunnel endpoints, but can not understand the entire route of the connection.

Based on the respective field of application, a suitable operating mode must be selected for the VPN. When connecting networks from different locations, ESP should be used in combination with tunnel mode. When communicating between two computers in the LAN, the transport mode should be selected.



## Examples 
* The key exchange must be carried out with a safe procedure with sufficient key length. For the Diffie-Hellman key exchange should z. For example, a MODP group in accordance with RFC 3526 with at least 2048 bits may be used.
* For symmetric encryption, secure cryptographic procedures with sufficient key length (AES-128, AES-256) must be used.
* Hash algorithms of sufficient length (eg SHA-256, SHA-384 or SHA-512) must be used.
* The authentication methods must correspond to the state of the art. There should be no known vulnerabilities relevant to the present application.
* Timeouts of IKE phases 1 and 2 should not be too large, for example 20 seconds maximum for phase 1 and 15 seconds for phase 2.
* For remote access VPNs, pre-shared keys (PSKs) as an authentication method should be avoided, as eg: B. the key management is very complex here.
* If pre-shared keys are used, secure keys must be selected, otherwise the keys can be found using dictionary attacks.
* Both the VPN client and the VPN server and the VPN server must authenticate to the VPN client.
* When using certificates for authentication, the status of the certificate must be checked at the PKI during each authentication process.




