#M 5.2 Selection of a suitable network topology
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

In information technology, a distinction is made between the physical and logical network topology. The physical and logical topology of a network are not necessarily identical. The physical topology describes the arrangement of the devices and the routing of the cables to physically connect the devices. The logical network topology is the assignment of data flows. It describes how the data is transmitted in the network and can be configured almost as desired by configuring the active network components. Virtual local area networks (VLANs) and virtualization can be used to form additional logical structures in networks.

In the following, the physical network topology, ie the routing of the cables and the placement of the distributors in the building will be discussed in more detail.

Naturally, the physical topology is almost always based on the spatial conditions under which the network is built. These include:

* Locations of the network participants,
* available space for routes and cables (see M 1.21 Sufficient route dimensioning),
* required cable types (see M 1.20 Selection of suitable cable types under a physical-mechanical view),
* Requirements for the protection of cables (see M 1.22 Material protection of cables and distributors).


In general, two basic forms of network topology are distinguished: the star and the bus. As extensions, a star-shaped structure can be derived from the star and a ring-shaped structure from the bus.

Of particular importance in reconceiving and retrofitting IT cabling in buildings are the star and tree structures.

The pros and cons of possible topologies are listed below. Further conceivable topologies, which are not mentioned here, can be regarded as a special case of the considered structures.



## Examples 
* Damage to a line will only affect the operation of the system connected to it.
* Modifications of the assignment of network subscribers to the connection point at the central node and separations of individual subscribers can be carried out centrally.
* With star cabling, all imaginable logical topologies can be simulated.
* The following disadvantages of the star topology are opposite:
* If the central node fails, all connected IT systems will fail.
* The individual connection of each participant to the central node requires a high amount of cabling.




