#M 5.109 Use of an e-mail scanner on the mail server
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

To increase security, an e-mail scanner with an integrated memory-resident anti-virus program (often called an e-mail guardian) should be installed on the central mail server. It should handle both incoming and outgoing e-mails, especially their attachments Check for spam features, computer viruses and other harmful content.

In addition to setting up an e-mail proxy on the mail server itself, a so-called SMTP gateway can also be set up at the point of transition to the Internet, on which the incoming and outgoing e-mails are checked. The connection to the Internet must then be realized so that all SMTP connections can only be handled via the SMTP gateway.

E-mail scanners work according to two fundamentally different approaches. A store-and-forward scanner first picks up an e-mail and then applies its mechanisms to classify the e-mail. After the classification, the scanner decides what to do with the e-mail (delete, highlight, ...). The method has the advantage that the e-mail is accepted first and then checked at your leisure. At the same time, however, this is also a disadvantage since, from a legal point of view, the e-mail has already been accepted and is therefore obliged to be delivered to the user. An online scanner checks an e-mail while it is receiving an e-mail and tries to classify it. If he finds that an e-mail may be undesirable, he can reject it directly and the e-mail remains the responsibility of the consignor. This method has the advantage that the users are not sent with marked e-mails or quarantine messages. The disadvantage is that with an incorrect classification by the scanner, the e-mail is no longer available locally. It lies physically with the consignor and neither user nor administrator initially have access to it. In practical use, a mixture of both methods is often used. Which filter measures are to be applied online or after the acceptance of the e-mail must be defined by a corresponding guideline and coordinated with the management.

It is equally important to check outgoing emails as well. On the one hand, it may be possible to detect an infection in the internal network before major damage occurs. On the other hand, this also protects the authorities or the company against any loss of reputation or even claims for damages, which could result from the fact that virus-contaminated e-mails are sent to business partners. With outgoing E-Mail scanners must be defined, which is to be done with virus-infected e-mails detected. At least an alarm should be triggered by the administrator.

Most e-mail protectors offer a wide range of setting options for what to do with suspicious e-mails. For example, such e-mails can be deleted, marked or stored on a quarantine server until it is clear whether the content is harmless. Another possibility is to separate only possible e-mail attachments while the message itself is forwarded to the recipient with a corresponding message.

To detect spam features in an e-mail, corresponding e-mail scanners support a variety of mechanisms.

In the first step, black and white lists are frequently used to verify the reputation of the external IP address involved in the communication. There are, for example, lists that indicate whether an IP address in the past has sent unwanted e-mails or whether there is a valid mail server behind the IP address. Furthermore, there are lists that state whether a mail server is RFC-compliant behind an IP address or whether it is in a dial-up network.

These lists are frequently used to terminate the communication with the IP addresses early and to accept no e-mails at all. They are maintained by providers and offered both for free and for a fee. When using such lists, it should be noted that these can potentially be error-prone. A business partner may be placed on such a list by carelessness, and as a result, you will no longer be able to receive e-mails from this partner. Furthermore, it must be taken into account that a provider of such a list also has the power to decide from which partner the institution will in future still receive e-mails.

The providers of such lists frequently offer these via a DNS server (so-called DNABL, DNS-based blackhole lists). If an operator of an e-mail scanner uses such a DNSBL, the e-mail scanner sends the IP addresses of all incoming e-mails to the operator of the DNSBL. In response, the e-mail scanner receives a statement as to whether the IP address is listed or not. Through this procedure, the provider of a DNSBL receives the IP addresses of all mail systems communicating with the institution. He is thus able to create extensive profiles via the mail communication. To avoid this problem, it makes sense to resort to local copies of the blacklists. Many providers provide copies of the data (subject to a charge).

The risks of using blacklists must be checked before use. The dangers arising from the use must be minimized by appropriate precautionary measures or contracts with the provider.



## Examples 
* Is a memory-resident anti-virus program (so-called e-mail guardian) installed on the central mail server, which checks both inbound and outbound e-mails for harmful content?
* Is there a scheme for dealing with encrypted e-mails that can not be easily scanned?
* Are employees, data protection officers and staff councils informed that e-mails are being scanned?




