#M 5.140 Building a distribution system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A distribution system is a network, the access points among each other and with the further infrastructure, such as. a wired network, connects. In general, two types of distribution systems are distinguished:

* Wired Distribution System: All access points are wired to each other and to the other infrastructure.
* Wireless Distribution System: Direct cabling between the access points is no longer necessary. Only the power supply must be guaranteed for each access point.


In both cases, the communication between the access points should always be encrypted instead of found in order to ensure the confidentiality of the transmitted data. In a wired distribution system, for example, IPSec VPN tunnels can be used for this, and for a wireless distribution system according to IEEE 802.11i, additional CCMP can be used. In addition to protecting confidentiality and integrity, availability of wireless distribution systems is essential and action should be taken to prevent potential denial-of-service attacks, and so on. Through the use of wireless intrusion detection systems and regular security checks, weaknesses can be found quickly and appropriate countermeasures initiated.

When setting up a distribution system, the basic decision must also be made as to whether, for security reasons, an own infrastructure will be set up or switched, ie a physical segmentation to the infrastructure of the internal LAN will take place. As an alternative, it can be checked whether logical segmentation by VLANs is sufficient.

If a separate physical infrastructure is set up for the distrubtion system, the spatial extent of the coverage area plays an important role. Typically, multiple access points are grouped together by Layer 2 or Layer 3 switches, with scaling at 12, 24, or 48 ports per switch. If, for example, 100 access points are to be connected to a distribution system, then three to ten switches are required. A direct connection of the access points to switches in the central server room is usually not possible, so the switches have to be distributed over the entire area to be equipped with WLAN. It must be ensured that the switches are adequately protected against external access and, depending on the availability of the distribution system, a redundancy of the switches is ensured. However, building up your own physical infrastructure requires greater investment and additional security measures.

With logical segmentation, virtual LANs (VLANs) are formed over the access switches of the wired LAN to control data flow. If segmentation of WLAN clients is to take place within the distribution system, the access point must also be assigned a WLAN client to a VLAN. The configuration of a logical distribution system within an existing LAN infrastructure is not entirely unproblematic under operational and thus availability aspects and requires extremely well-trained administrators. As long as the entire LAN and WLAN infrastructure is only available as normal, the configuration of VLANs is a viable option. However, as soon as higher availability is desired, VLANs are not recommended for a distribution system.



