#M 5.33 Protection of remote maintenance
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Remote maintenance of IT systems involves special security risks. For remote maintenance, it must be distinguished whether internal or external maintenance personnel access the IT systems. In order for administrators to be able to help IT users quickly without having to go to the installation site of the respective IT systems, IT service providers often use remote maintenance accesses. For safety reasons, it makes sense to dispense with external remote maintenance. If this is not possible, additional safety measures are essential.

The IT system to be maintained must implement the following security functions:

* The establishment of the connection for remote maintenance should always be initiated by the local IT system. This can be realized by calling the IT system to be serviced at the remote maintenance center or using an automatic callback.
* The user of the IT system must explicitly agree with the remote access, eg. For example, a corresponding confirmation on the system. He should watch all activities during the remote access.
* The external maintenance personnel must authenticate themselves at the beginning of the maintenance. If passwords are transmitted unscrambled, one-time passwords should be used (see M 5.34 Use of one-time passwords).
* The execution of a remote maintenance must be logged. At least the beginning and the end of the remote maintenance as well as the participants are to be noted. If no one can observe the remote access on the maintained IT system, all activities when performing remote maintenance must be recorded on the IT system to be maintained.


In addition, additional functions can be implemented on the IT system to be maintained:

* Interruption of time in case of incorrect access attempts,
* Disabling remote maintenance during normal operation and explicit release for a precisely defined period of time,
* Restriction of Maintenance Personnel Rights: Maintenance personnel should not have full administrator rights. A graded rights administration should be realized, with Unix systems also M 2.33 division of the administration activities under Unixzu is to be considered, with PC networks M 2.38 distribution of the administration activities (the maintenance personnel should access only the data and directories that are currently affected by maintenance.)
* on the IT system, maintenance personnel should have their own user ID, under which all possible maintenance is carried out,
* If the connection to the remote maintenance center is interrupted in any way, access to the system must be terminated by a forced logout.




## Examples 
* For remote maintenance via external communication connections, the access and the connections must be secured. The remote maintenance personnel must authenticate themselves and the transmitted data must be encrypted. For example, the connection perVPN or exclusively used connections can be realized.
* If technically possible, all activities should be monitored during the administration of third parties by in-house IT experts. For example, when remote administration of a client via a graphical user interface, often all inputs and outputs can be displayed and recorded on the IT system to be maintained. Even if remote maintenance is used by third parties because the know-how or capacity is not available internally, the external maintenance personnel can not be left unattended (see also M 2.3 Data Carrier Management). If you have any questions about the procedures, the local IT expert should ask for it immediately. It must always be possible to cancel the remote maintenance locally.
* If data or programs are created on the local IT system during maintenance, this must be clearly recognizable and comprehensible, eg. this may only be done in specially marked directories or under certain user identifiers.
* All remote administration procedures must be recorded. At least the beginning and the end of the remote maintenance as well as the participants are to be noted. If no one can observe the remote access on the maintained IT system, all activities when performing remote maintenance must be recorded on the IT system to be maintained.




