#M 5.20 Use of the security mechanisms of rlogin, rsh and rcp
Responsible for Initiation: Administrator, IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

With the program rlogin or the associated daemon rlogind it is possible to log in via a network connection on another computer, whereby however only the password is queried, since the user name is handed over directly. With the commands rsh or rcp and the daemon rshd it is possible to execute a command on another computer. For both commands it is possible to define trusted hosts, either user-specific in the home directory in the $ HOME / .rhosts file or system-wide in the file /etc/hosts.equiv. Each computer, which is registered in one of these files, is regarded as trustworthy, so that a login (with rlogin) or the execution of a command (with rsh) from it without a password is possible.

Since it is very easy, especially from a PC, to pretend any computer name, it must be ensured that the files $ HOME / .rhosts and /etc/hosts.equiv are not present or that they are empty and the user has no access rights to it. To do this you should regularly check the home directories of the users, or you should prevent the daemon rlogind and rshd from being started (see the file /etc/inetd.conf and the action M 5.16 Overview) Via network services). If using the file /etc/hosts.equiv is essential, make sure that there is no entry '+', as this would make any computer trustworthy.

Secure Shell (ssh) can be used as a replacement for the r services, with extensive functions for secure authentication and to maintain confidentiality and integrity (see also M 5.64 Secure Shell). If ssh is used, the r-services should be shut down as far as possible so that the security measures can not be bypassed. However, this assumes that all communication partners have suitable implementations of ssh.



