#M 5.167 Secure remote access on Mac OS X
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Mac OS X version Panther (10.3) includes the network service Apple Remote Desktop for remote maintenance. The server component is based on the Virtual Network Computing (VNC) protocol and is able to communicate with any VNC client, regardless of operating system and manufacturer.

However, the client component has been integrated into the operating system as a screen share since the Mac OS X version Leopard (10.5). If screen sharing is activated in the system settings under the menu item Shares, anyone with appropriate access rights can access the IT system under Mac OS X. To increase security, the VNC users option should be enabled to control the screen with the following password and avoid trivial password forms (see M 2.11 Password Usage Control). Furthermore, the screen sharing may only be accessible to selected user groups.

Starting with Mac OS X Leopard (10.5), the encrypted transmission of remote control data via VNC is supported, which should also be activated. In the screen sharing settings on clients, the option Encrypt all network data (secure) is required to encrypt not just passwords and keystrokes, but the entire data transfer.

If the VNC software does not support encrypted data transmission or if an older Mac OS X operating system is used, it is recommended to use a SSH tunnel or a VPN for secure data transmission.



