#M 5.168 Secure connection of background systems to web applications and web services
Responsible for initiation: Responsible for the individual applications, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

Web applications and web services often use background systems, for example, for data storage in a database or for authentication by means of an identity memory. The data should also be adequately protected during transmission and storage in background systems. To do this, the background systems must be securely connected to the web application or the web service.

Typical background systems of web applications and web services are:

* databases
* Directory services,
* Middleware,
* Web services and
* Legacy systems.


For the secure connection of background systems the following points should be considered:



## Examples 
* Is access to background systems of web applications or web services possible exclusively via defined interfaces and defined systems?
* Is the traffic between the users and the web application or the applications, web services and other services as well as the background systems regulated by security gateways (firewalls)?
* Are the links between web applications or web services and background systems protected by transport encryption when security is high?
* Is it ensured that requests from the web application or the web service to background systems are executed with only minimal rights to them?
* Is there a separate logical network segment for the ESB when using an ESB? Is access to the ESB only possible through the connected applications and services?
* Is segmentation by zone according to the existing security domains in the ESB maintained, if necessary up to the separation into several ESBs?
* Are all accesses to the ESB authenticated and sufficiently secured / encrypted during communication across site and network boundaries?
* Have appropriate measures been implemented to ensure adequate availability during the implementation and operation of the ESB?




