#M 5.87 Agreement on the connection to networks of third parties
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

More and more companies and authorities are merging their hitherto closed-off networks into network connections known as extranets. When connecting your own internal network to third-party networks, it is necessary that a detailed agreement (Data Connection Agreement - DCA) is concluded before a network connection is made. In this way, it must be precisely defined who receives access to their own network, under which conditions and to which areas and services of their own network access should be given. Equally important is the other direction, ie the question of who should receive access to a foreign network from their own organization with which access rights and under what conditions.

Such an agreement should include the following components:

* a description of what the agreement as a whole comprises,
* a determination of those responsible (who is responsible for compliance with the terms of the contract?),


* the appointment of contact persons both for organizational and technical problems and in particular for safety-related events,
* the required technical information, that is to say, which services (eg telnet, ftp, http) are provided, which IT platforms, applications and data formats are supported, what availability is available (Performance, maximum failure rate), who may or may not log what, where the log data are stored and who may access the log data (this may be particularly important in emergency situations), to what extent a regular exchange of log data the safety measures to be taken,
* a Non-Disclosure Agreement, d. H. an agreement that information obtained by one of the parties in the framework of the cooperation shall not be disclosed to outsiders,


* a liability or compensation regulation (this should include, among other things, the conditions for the separation of the network connection, liability for compute viruses or hacker attacks, penalties for non-performance or assumption of liability for use of third-party content )
* a regulation  for information obligations in case of security breaches,
* a determination of which data may be used for which purposes (eg in the case of re-use of work results),
* a description of the extent to which other contractors are involved in the agreement, eg Eg by sharing applications or as a service provider for one of the contractors,
* the duration of the agreement (technology is rapidly evolving, meaning that the agreements on their use must be constantly adapted).


The agreement should be concluded by the persons responsible for their compliance. First of all, it should be decided who should be responsible for the grid connection, since different areas of a company or a public authority are usually involved. It makes sense to set up a team to which at least the IT security officer, the IT manager, the specialist responsible person and the data protection officer are involved. For critical decisions, eg. Whether the connection is to be temporarily disconnected because of problems, all the above-mentioned persons should be involved, since their interests can vary greatly according to experience.

Before a network connection is activated, all safety features on both sides should have been cleared out. Here also a way should be found to convince oneself of the security level of its partners, for example by basic security checks or spot checks. In no case should the elimination of security vulnerabilities be put into live operation, as experience shows that these are prioritized lower than pure availability problems.

Only those services should be made available to third parties that have been contractually agreed and are absolutely necessary. It must be made dependent on the type of existing relationships between the communication partners and trust in the communication partners on which areas of their own network third-party access is granted. For foreign partners, their national laws must be taken into account, eg. in the fields of cryptography and copyright.

If security incidents occur due to the network connection, it must be clearly defined who is allowed to disconnect and when, who is to be informed about this and which escalation steps are to be provided.



