#M 5.138 Use of RADIUS servers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

In large networks, authentication servers should be used as much as possible. RADIUS server. Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) is a client-server protocol used to authenticate, authorize, and bill (AAA) users to secure connections. The protocol is described in several RFCs, the main one being RFC 2865.

An authentication server is to ensure that only authorized users can access the internal network, and access can be restricted to certain terminals as well. This is initially an identification z. B. based on an identifier, and then the authentication, z. B. Via a password, instead. The transmission of this data should be encrypted. Here, the ProtocolEAP (Extensible Authentication Protocol) is often used. Authentication is EAP port-based and based on the IEEE 802.1X standard. This means that access to the network is only allowed if the client has uniquely identified itself on the RADIUS server.

The authentication servers used are suitable for securing (see M 4.250 Selection of a central, network-based authentication service).

For the shared secrets between RADIUS server and RADIUS client, it takes sufficient time to use complex cryptographic keys. In this case, if the administrative options are given, a different shared secret can be used for each RADIUS client-server relationship.

For RADIUS, components should be used which comply with the requirements of the RFCs for RADIUS in order to ensure the greatest possible interoperability between the various components. The authentication and billing protocols should be stored in a separate database system.

RADIUS communication should be limited to port 1812 or 1813, respectively. Ports  1645 or 1646 should not be used as far as possible. Other ports are to be closed, as far as technically possible. The RADIUS communication of the server should be limited to the RADIUS clients known and authentic to the server.

If there is a high need for protection with regard to the confidentiality of the authentication information, IPSec is recommended for securing RADIUS communication, although RADIUS 'own procedures to secure communication should not be waived. Likewise, it is necessary to consider using a redundant RADIUS server.

The guidelines for a RADIUS server to respond to an authentication request should be as restrictive as possible. Here, the permissible dial-up times, the MAC address and the port type of the connecting RADIUS client, as well as the IP address of the RADIUS client and the EAP method for authentication should be specified.



