#M 5.15 Securing external remote access to telecommunications systems
Responsible for initiation: IT Security Officer, TK-Anlagenverantwortlicher

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

As external remote access, in this measure, any access is viewed via the maintenance interface of the TC system via public switching systems and data networks, such as the Internet. This can be necessary either because the individual systems of the group are not or not only (see note) connected via leased lines or that rapid support of the manufacturer in emergency cases can not be waived. In these cases, the maintenance port (modem) must have full authority.

Modern telecommunications systems can often be configured via data networks. Depending on the network structure, the PBX is located in a LAN or in a separate management network. Direct access to the PBX located on internal networks from public networks must be prevented. If, nevertheless, a public data network should be used to access the PBX, a Virtual Private Network (VPN, see B 4.4 VPN) should be used. This creates a protected data connection to the VPN endpoint, which is typically located in the demilitarized zone (DMZ). From there, a connection can be set up taking into account the recommendations of M 5.14 Securing internal remote access of PBXs.

The following figure shows a typical scenario of an external remote access to a remote administration port via modem. The PBX is administered from the external maintenance station via modem 1 - public network - PBX - modem 2 - V.24 maintenance interface.



For safety reasons, it makes sense to dispense with external remote maintenance. If this is not possible, additional security measures are necessary in addition to the measures for internal remote access.

Note: Some systems offer the possibility to handle only the basic traffic load via leased lines and to route load peaks automatically via the public network. This process is not signaled to the user.



## Examples 
* Identification and authentication of the operator,
* Termination of the connection in safety-critical events,
* Automatic callback (call back) and
* Logging of all activities.




