#M 6.125 Establishment of a central contact point for the reporting of security incidents
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

In order to increase the efficiency of the reception of security incidents, it should be examined whether a single point of contact should be set up for the reporting of security incidents.

In practice, there are two ways to report security incidents:

* All faults (including the security incidents) are reported dieby the central fault supervisor, usually via the Service Desk in the First Level of Incident Management.
* Security incidents are reported  by a separate hotline to a dedicated security management contact.


For a central fault acceptance for all faults speaks:

* Most users are not able to classify a fault as safety-relevant.
* Security management could leverage existing IT service management infrastructure and processes.
* Information about security incidents could be managed together with those in a central database about malfunctions. The central administration in a common database would be possible if strong authentication is used and the tool allows a sufficiently differentiated authorization management. In practice, however, there is currently a shortage of practical limits to practicability.Note: It may be useful to treat security incidents that violate security policies separately (eg internal attacks).


However, a central failure assumption has the disadvantage that more persons have to be trained in safety-relevant situations and the trustworthiness of all employees is to be checked on the central assumption, so that no sensitive facts are undesirably received by the public.

If the authority or the company decides to set up a central point of contact for the reporting of security incidents, tools and procedures for the detection of security incidents should be made available to the employees working there (for example, an overview of the protection needs of the systems being looked after). The training required for information security should also not be underestimated (see M 6.129 Training of the Service Desk staff for the handling of security incidents). If a central contact point is set up, it must be possible to reach it at the usual working hours. Information about security incidents must be treated confidentially by the contact point staff.



