#M 6.119 Documentation in the emergency management process
Responsible for Initiation: Emergency Representative

Responsible for implementation: Emergency Representative

The process of the emergency management process, the work results of the individual phases and important decisions should be documented. Such documentation and logging is an essential foundation for the maintenance and efficient development of the process. It helps to find and eliminate the causes of failures and mishaps in emergency management. It is only through continuous documentation that developments and decisions in the area of ??emergency management can be traced comprehensibly.

It is a comprehensible process to establish that ensures all documents, logs and records created in emergency management are discoverable, uniquely identified, readily accessible and readable. Each document must be securely stored or stored and limited access to authorized persons to prevent misuse.

It is a procedure to establish that ensures the regular as well as event-based updating of the documents. Outdated documents that have been replaced by a new version are to be marked as such in order to prevent unintentional use. It is important for all documents created in the context of emergency management that not only the current version but also the previous versions are stored centrally and can be called up at any time.

Depending on the subject matter and intended use, the following types of emergency management and emergency management documentation should be considered:



## Examples 
* the guideline for the emergency management of the agency or the company
* the role descriptions with tasks, rights and duties
* Overview of Resource Requirements and Deployment
* the emergency preparedness concept with the results of the BIA, the risk analysis, the continuity strategies, necessary measures and their implementation
* the emergency manual for the effective management of an emergency or crisis with the organizational structure for the emergency management and the various emergency plans
* the awareness-raising and training concept, evidence of the measures and the documentation of the check
* Planning, conception and execution of protocols of tests and exercises
* Planning, implementation and results of revisions and reviews (eg test lists and survey protocols)
* Planning and implementation of corrective and improvement measures
* the essential work and decisions of the emergency management team should be in the form of eg: B. minutes of meetings and resolutions be documented




