#M 6.51 Restore a database
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

For the restoration of databases, a concept has to be created that regulates the process of restoring database backups. Bases of this concept are:

* the data protection concept (see M 6.49 Data backup of a database) and
* the possible error situations that may require a restore of database backups (see also M 6.48 Behavioral rules after loss of database integrity).


On the basis of these points, it must be deduced which database backups must be restored in which form.

Restoring a database can be a complex task that requires a very careful approach and whose steps should be rehearsed through regular test runs. Nevertheless, it can happen that a restoration does not work smoothly and without errors.

When restoring, two aspects need to be harmonized. On the one hand, the affected database should be available to users as soon as possible, on the other hand, the most up-to-date state of the database should be established and the cause of the damage analyzed. If the failure of the database can not be clearly attributed to a hardware damage, the extent of the inconsistency is often difficult to determine. Also, the database can not always be recovered without problems until the last transaction before the error was detected.

In such cases it has to be decided whether a limited loss of topicality or rather a longer business interruption is responsible. This depends largely on the field of application of the database, the nature of the error, and the time between the first occurrence of the error and its discovery or first response to it. Particularly in the case of damage caused by incorrect administration or inadmissible manipulation, the exact extent of the damage is often difficult to determine.

For this, decision guidelines and corresponding instructions should be part of the recovery concept. In order to make the database available again as soon as possible, the affected database should be restored to a separate system or storage area and released to the user. If access functions are separated from the data (see M 2.134 Guidelines for Database Inquiries), this can usually be done transparently for the users.

In no case should the destroyed database be overwritten without further checking (see M 6.48 Code of Conduct after loss of database integrity) by simply restoring the database backup. In many cases, the database that is considered inconsistent can be cleaned up again without the need for a complete restoration of the database, rather than simply restoring individual data records. Even in the case of partial recovery, it is important to remember whether to restore the database to a test system elsewhere and clean up the original database after ensuring proper recoverability.

Even if the damaged database can no longer be repaired, it should nevertheless be retained for analysis and determination of the cause of the error.

The recovery concept should specify which resources should be kept available and to what extent for emergency purposes. Key points that must be taken into consideration here are in particular storage capacities and hard disk areas. These sizes should be regularly checked against the current database size to ensure that in an emergency the impact on other databases can be minimized.



