#M 6.47 Data backup during teleworking
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Teleworker

In teleworking, data can be processed on different IT systems and in different places, for example on servers and clients in the institution, but also on clients at the teleworkstation. The backup of all relevant data at the teleworkstation must be ensured. The data protection concept of the institution must not only be limited to the servers, but must also include the teleworking workplaces. In general, the following methods for data backup at the teleworkstation are available:

* Data backup on external data carriersHere, teleworking stations must have the necessary technical equipment. In addition to the required external data carriers, this includes the necessary hardware and software of the computer. In addition, the teleworkers must be trained to be able to make backups on their own.
* Data backup over network The backup of the local data can also be done via the connection to the network of the institution. It is advantageous here that the data backup does not have to be performed by the teleworkers on their own and they also do not have to manage any data carriers. Decisive for the data backup over a network connection is that their bandwidth is sufficient for the volume of the data to be backed up. Data transfer should not take too long and lead to excessive delays while accessing remote resources. In the case of common access technologies (eg ISDN, modem), only small amounts of data can be transported per backup process. Depending on the backup program, it is possible to transfer only the changes to the database since the last backup (incremental backup). In many cases, the volume of data to be transported can be greatly reduced. An important requirement of the software used for data backup is that unexpected connection drops are detected and handled properly.


In both methods of data backup, it is desirable to minimize the volume of data to be backed up. In addition to the use of lossless compression methods, which are integrated in many data protection programs, incremental or differential backup methods can also be used (see also M 6.35 Defining the procedure for data backup). However, this may increase the cost of restoring a backup.

The backup should be as automated as possible, so that the teleworkers have to carry out only a few actions themselves. If the cooperation of the users is necessary, they should be obliged to regularly perform the data backup (see M 2.41 Obligation of the employees for data backup). Finally, it should be sporadically checked whether backups created can be restored (see M 6.22 Sporadic check for recoverability of backups).



## Examples 
* Are all data processed during telework regularly backed up?
* Is the chosen data backup method suitable and sufficient for the volume of data?
* Are as few backup actions as possible required by the teleworker?
* Is a generation of backup volumes stored in the institution?




