#M 6.166 Emergency preparedness for the identity and entitlement management system
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, administrator

If the identity and authorization management system fails, user profiles can no longer be changed, created or deleted. It must be examined to what extent this has safety-critical effects on the business processes. It is also necessary to investigate how an attack affects rights that could not be deleted due to the failure of the Identity and Entitlement Management system.

So that all data stored in the identity and authorization management system can be made available even in the case of malfunctions, failures of the hardware or (intentional or unintentional) changes are regular and comprehensive backups required. The necessary measures are described in block B 1.4 Data backup concept.

If a central tool for identity and authorization management is used in an institution, then its orderly operation is essential for the maintenance of all associated processes and applications. Therefore, in the context of emergency preparedness, it is necessary to question what effects a failure of the tools for identity and authorization management can have and how these can be made operational again as quickly as possible (see module B 1.3 Emergency Management ).

In emergency situations, it may be necessary for specialists (eg from the crisis team) to require extensive short-term authorizations in the event of an emergency in order to be able to remedy the emergency and thus restore the operating state. The process for award, documentation and withdrawal must be described in the emergency plan. In the emergency concept, it should also be checked whether the authorization concepts provided here for emergency cases are still applicable if a failure of the identity and authorization management system occurs.



