#M 6.138 Creation of an emergency plan for the failure of virtualization components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The failure of virtualization servers usually has far-reaching consequences for the information network. This is because not only the virtualization component itself is affected by the failure, but also all the virtualized IT systems running on the component.

Therefore, the failure of a virtualization component can not be considered in isolation. In the context of planning the use of virtualization of IT systems in the data center, it must be remembered that the intended extent of consolidation in the area of ??hardware use also increases the extent of damage caused by a failure. This degree of damage increases the more the consolidation effects have an impact. Therefore, the protection requirements of the whole of the virtual IT systems must be mapped to the protection requirements of the virtualization components. Here, the maximum principle and the cumulation principle must be observed.

Furthermore, it is often not enough just to look at the failure of virtualization servers running virtualized IT systems. Other IT systems that are necessary for the operation of the virtualization server must be included. The failure of these systems may limit the availability of virtualization systems. Therefore, for the following systems, if any, a failure procedure must be established:

* server virtualization
* Management server (especially connection broker)
* licensing server


Depending on how the virtualization systems are integrated into the information network, other systems such as directory services and name resolution services must also be considered.

Because infrastructure services, such as directory services or name resolution services, can also run on virtualized IT systems, the failure of one or more virtualization components can create a very complex situation. For example, the restart of a heavily virtualized data center has to be planned in detail because of the frequently associated service dependencies.

The following aspects must be considered in principle:

* The emergency planning for virtualization systems must be integrated into the existing emergency plan (see module B 1.3 Emergency Management).
* A system failure of a virtualization server can cause data loss in all virtual IT systems running on the failed virtualization server. For all virtual IT systems, therefore, it must be checked to what extent the existing data protection concepts (cf. module B 1.4 Data backup concept) must be adapted to the chosen virtualization technology. It was to be tested for the virtual IT systems whether the new techniques of virtualization (snapshots) could be used for data backup and which advantages and disadvantages could result from this. Important images must be included in the backup.
* If a virtualization server fails, all virtual IT systems running on it will also fail. The likelihood of serious data loss for at least one affected virtual IT system increases with the number of systems involved. It is therefore important to consider in contingency planning that a more extensive recovery effort may have to be planned.
* If several virtualization servers are used in a farm (virtual infrastructure), it is important to ensure that a sensible grouping of the virtual IT systems is selected. For example, two systems that can perform each other's tasks should not be run on a virtualization server.
* It must be ensured that trained personnel are available for the handling of virtual infrastructures in an emergency.
* The system configuration of the virtualization server (see M 2.318 Secure installation of an IT system, M 2.315 Planning the server deployment and M 4.237 Secure basic configuration of an IT system) must be available to administrators at all times. It must be designed in such a way that in the event of an emergency, the virtualisation servers can also be restored by personnel who are not familiar with the previous configuration in detail.
* A recovery plan has to be created that ensures a controlled restart of the virtualization servers and the virtual IT systems that fail with them.
* It must be ensured that the re-commissioning of the virtualization systems does not depend on a service in the data center, which is provided exclusively by a virtual IT system.


In the context of emergency preparedness, different scenarios should be considered in which the virtualization systems have been compromised in whole or in part. For these scenarios, it must be precisely described how to react to this and which actions should be performed. The procedure should be practiced regularly.

Timely contingency planning with pre-set instructions, which can also be performed by people who are unfamiliar with the administration of the virtualization systems, can reduce the consequences in the event of damage. The corresponding documents for emergency situations must be accessible to authorized persons. However, as they contain important information, they must be kept safe.

Specifically, at least the following emergency situations should be considered:



## Examples 
* Were the impact of the virtual infrastructure-related consolidation effects on the availability requirements of the virtualization servers tested?
* Has a procedure been defined for a failure of virtualization components?
* Have the emergency plans been adapted to the virtual infrastructure?
* Have the backup concepts been adapted to the virtual infrastructure?
* Is it ensured that appropriate documents and suitable personnel are available in an emergency?
* Have any regulations been written that describe the procedure for stealing virtual IT systems?
* Are the virtualization servers regularly checked for errors?
* Has the need for action been examined that increase availability in cases of force majeure?




