#M 6.76 Create a disaster recovery plan for Windows systems
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Failure of one or more Windows systems, if properly controlled by the Windows system, can have a serious impact on the IT environment as users can not access the functionality provided by the Windows system. It is necessary to determine what measures should be taken to avoid an emergency situation, to minimize the consequences of failure and to ensure a quick and successful restart. The documentation and instructions required in the event of a failure (of the server) may contain valuable information. They are to be kept safe in order to prevent the misuse of the information. Protective information can be for example:

* Configuration data
* License key, possibly volume license volume,
* (administrative) user accounts and passwords and
* other confidential information, such as. Key material for hard disk, network, or email encryption.


At the same time, it must be ensured on an organizational level that, in the event of a breakdown, this information is available to the persons responsible for the restoration. The emergency plan for Windows systems must be integrated into the emergency concept (see B 1.3 Emergency Management) and M 6.96 Emergency preparedness for a server to be compatible.

The contingency planning should already be included in the planning of the systems since certain availability requirements, which require redundancy for example, must be observed in good time (see M 6.1 Generating an overview of availability requirements). The emergency plan should set out clear criteria for which Windows systems the emergency plan should be applied.



## Examples 
* BIOS and firmware versions
* hardware Features
* installed Windows components
* installed additional software
* Network configuration (see Properties of the LAN connections, which can be found in the Network and Sharing Center in the Control Panel)
* Services (see service console)
* Partitioning of the hard disks or the connected hard disk system
* User accounts and groups with permissions
* Shares and share permissions, NTFS permissions
* Settings in the security policies (using templates)




