#M 6.48 Behavioral rules after loss of database integrity
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

If the database system behaves in an unintended manner (for example, undefined system behavior, tables or records that can not be found, changed table contents, unpredictably long response time, or something similar), database integrity may be lost. This may also have been caused by abusive use of the system, for example, by changes in system settings.

For such problem cases, a concept (recovery concept) should be created that describes tests, decisions and actions in order to make the database available again in a fast and secure way (see M 6.51 Recovery) a database).

Another important aspect is the notification of the users of the database. This should be done as soon as signs of loss of integrity appear before recovery begins. For this case and for the situation that a user noticed irregularities in the use of the database, the users should be given behavioral rules in the form of a leaflet, which should contain at least the following points:

* Keep Calm!
* Notify the database administrator
* Do not access the database anymore
* Follow the instructions of the database administrator


The database administrator should follow exactly the recovery concept, which should include the following steps, which should be performed depending on the cause of the error:



## Examples 
* Immediate notification to all affected users with the request that they no longer perform database access and wait for new instructions.
* Turning information to the affected user about the current status of troubleshooting.




