#M 6.123 Establishment of a team of experts for the treatment of security incidents
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

So that security incidents can be competently supported throughout the entire lifecycle of the incident handling process, it makes sense to put together a team of experienced and trustworthy specialists. If necessary, this team can be complemented by external specialists to respond appropriately to all types of security incidents. All members of the team of experts should be checked for their trustworthiness (see also M 3.33 Security check of employees).

It is important to ensure that all members of the team are suitably involved in the escalation paths. In addition to setting up a team of experts, it must be ensured that the financial and technical resources necessary for the handling of a security incident are made available to him immediately, should the need arise.

Most teams of experts exist as virtual teams, convened only to handle a security incident and managed by an experienced executive. The role of the manager is usually assumed by the IT security officer. The concrete composition of the team members usually depends on the type of security incident and the systems or locations concerned. Depending on the information network, SAP, Lotus Notes, Windows, database, Unix or network specialists, for example, may be part of the team. The members of the expert team not only have to have extensive knowledge of the systems used, but also have to be trained in the analysis of security incidents on these systems. In order to always be able to react correctly to current attack variants, the members of the expert team must regularly undergo further training.



