#M 6.100 Creation of an emergency plan for the failure of VoIP
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The partial or complete failure of the VoIP architecture has in many cases serious consequences, because telephony is usually one of the most important services in an institution. A failure can have many causes. In addition to typical VoIP problems, a failure of individual network components can lead to the complete failure of the VoIP service.

In the context of emergency preparedness, a concept should therefore be drafted on how the consequences of a failure can be minimized and what activities should be carried out in the event of a failure.

The following aspects must be considered:

* The emergency planning for VoIP must be integrated into the existing emergency plan (see also module B 1.3 Emergency Management).
* In the event of a failure of VoIP, telecommunications must continue to be possible. Therefore, it is to be determined whether at least one emergency communication is possible in the event of a VoIP failure (at least to the police, fire brigade). In addition, it must be possible to inform an (external) support service provider promptly about the failure so that the error can be remedied. In the event of a failure, mobile phones, for example, can be used for communication, but precautionary measures must be taken.
* A system failure can also lead to data loss. Therefore, as part of the general data protection concept (see also B 1.4 data protection concept), regulations must be established for the VoIP components. Not only the VoIP middleware itself has to be taken into account, but also the terminals with the settings made by users, such as telephone books.
* Provision must be made for repairing an IT system running a softphone. If the users need to be reachable by telephone to perform their tasks, appropriate measures must be taken.




