#M 6.21 Backup copy of the software used
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

In the case of problems with IT systems, it is often necessary to be able to reinstall the operating systems and applications used in a timely manner. All files required for installation must be available for this. Therefore, it is necessary to make copies and archive them in an appropriate location.

If the software is supplied on data carriers (eg DVDs, CDs or USB sticks), a backup copy of the software purchased from the original data carriers and of the original software should be created, from which the software can be restored if necessary , The original data carriers and the backup copies must be kept separate from each other.

In particular, applications are often not delivered on data carriers, but only as separate installation files, as part of a package or software management or as source code packages. These installation sources should also be stored in a suitable location.

In order to install paid operating systems or applications, license numbers often have to be entered during installation. For this reason, it is necessary that in addition to the installation sources, these license numbers are suitably deposited. Unauthorized access to the installation media and license numbers, eg. B. to create a pirated copy must be excluded.

If the software has been translated from source code, then the documentation should contain all the options used during compilation (especially the options used to call any configure script). If the software has been installed from a binary package, all steps should be documented with which the installation can later be reconstructed.

Any change to a configuration file should be documented. It is recommended to use versioning. In addition, all configuration files must be backed up regularly.



