#M 6.124 Defining the interfaces of the incident handling for troubleshooting
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

Incident management has the task of receiving all reports of incidents as well as inquiries and orders from the users in order to support the users in their work and thus ensuring a smooth IT deployment.

Security incidents are also regarded as disruptions in this sense, as they may impair the availability, integrity or confidentiality of the information processed with IT and thus cause the corresponding damage to the business functions ,

Service disruptions can also be the result of unrecognized security incidents. This is z. B. This is the case when the security incident is associated with attacks that use vulnerabilities to purposefully destabilize IT services and the IT systems they require. Occasionally, these security incidents are only recognized by their effect in the form of incipient faults. The primary objective of incident management is to remedy disruptions as quickly as possible and to restore the agreed service in order to minimize the impact on business processes.

Likewise, IT breaches can also cause new security gaps if z. Safety mechanisms are disabled by unstable systems or workarounds.

Service privileges and security incidents can therefore be both cause and effect. Therefore, these should be considered and treated in context. Therefore, the potential interfaces between incident management, emergency management and security management should be analyzed and shared resources identified. For example, Incident Management should be made aware of the issues of incident handling and emergency management. In addition, security management should have read access to incident management tools used, in order to be able to identify incidents or identify patterns of failure if necessary.

The following list illustrates the main process steps in Incident Management. The referenced measures of the IT-Grundschutz Catalogs describe which aspects of integration should be used to align the incident management process with the requirements of information security management:

* Detect and capture (see M 6.130 Detecting and recording security incidents)
* Qualification and Initial Attempt (see M 6.131 Qualifying and Evaluating Security Precautions)
* Analyze and suggest a solution (see M 6.131 Qualifying and Evaluating Security Precautions and M 6.64 Fixing Security Precautions)
* Recover service and service (see M 6.64 Resolving security issues and M 6.133 Restoring the operating environment after security incidents)
* Monitoring and controlling the solution (see M 6.133 Restoring the operating environment after security incidents and M 6.134 Documenting security incidents)
* Completion of the fault (see M 6.133 Restoring the operating environment after security incidents)


The chances of handling disruptions and security incidents in a comprehensive and standardized incident management system will increase if the proposed integration aspects are taken into account.



