#M 6.49 Data backup of a database
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

As a rule, backup of the data of a database system can not be completely covered with the backup programs at operating system level. The latter are in most cases merely the link to write the data to be backed up to a backup medium. To secure theDBMSand the data, however, the respective utility programs of the DBMS must additionally be used for most database products.

The simplest way to back up a database, which is the safest at the same time, is to back up the database in its entirety. All files belonging to the database are saved on the backup medium. However, this procedure is usually not feasible because of the availability requirements for the database or due to the volume of data to be backed up.

An alternative to the complete backup described above is an online backup of the database. The backup then takes place during operation, ie. the database does not need to be shut down. The disadvantages of this type of backup are that inconsistencies can not be explicitly ruled out, and that in this case too, if the database is destroyed, an (offline) complete backup must exist on which the online backups can be played back can. For this reason online backups should only be carried out if permanent availability of the database is required. Nevertheless, a complete offline backup, which can be carried out within reasonable time limits, should not be left out.

Partial database backups are another option. They should be used whenever the volume of data to be backed up is too large to perform a full backup. This may result from the fact that the capacities of the backup media are insufficient or that the available time frame per backup is not sufficient to perform a full backup.

If possible, all transactions between two offline full backups should always be archived. For example, Oracle offers the option of activating the so-called ARCHIVE mode for the database. Transactions are logged in Oracle in so-called log files, of which there are several. These are described one after the other and as soon as all log files are full, the first log file is overwritten again. The ARCHIVE mode creates a backup copy of these log files before they are overwritten again. In this way, if the database is destroyed, all transactions can be completely reconstructed. Again, the existence of a complete backup of the database is the prerequisite. The duration of such a recovery increases with the number of archive log files to be restored.

For the data backup of a database system a separate data backup concept has to be created. Influencing factors for such a concept are:

* Availability requirements for the databaseIf, for example, a database needs to be available around the clock on weekdays, a full backup can only be performed at weekends, as this generally requires database shutdown.
* Data volumeThe total data volume to be backed up must be compared with the available backup capacities. In this case, it must be determined whether the backup capacities (eg one DAT tape per backup run) are sufficiently dimensioned for the corresponding data volume of the database. If this is not the case, a concept for incremental backup of the data volume must be created. This can be z. This means, for example, that the data of individual applications or individual areas of the database are always backed up alternately or only the current changes. The options for an incremental backup depend on the database software used.
* Maximum Effortable Data LossHere it must be determined whether, in the event of database corruption, data loss will one day be acceptable, or whether the database must be recoverable until the last transaction. This is generally the case with a high requirement for the availability or integrity of the data.
* Recovery timeThe maximum allowable recovery time of the database after a crash must also be set to meet the availability requirements.
* Database software backup options Generally, standard database software does not support all possible backup options, such as: For example, a partial database backup. In this specific case, it is therefore necessary to check whether the created data protection concept can also be implemented with the available mechanisms.


Based on this information, a concept for the backup of the database can be created. Among other things, this backup concept specifies (see also block B 1.4 Data backup concept)

* who is responsible for the proper execution of backups,
* at what intervals a database backup is performed,
* in what way the database backup has to be done,
* at which time the database backup is performed,
* the specification of the volume of data to be backed up per backup.
* how to document the creation of backups, and
* where the backup media is kept.




## Examples 
* Start time: in the morning at 3.00h
* There is a complete backup of the data, the database is not shut down, but the possibility of online backup of the DBMS is used.




