#M 6.146 Backing up and restoring Mac OS X clients
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

On Mac OS X, the data can be backed up using the system's Time Machine utility. The software is already available for a standard installation of Mac OS X. Time Machine can also be easily configured by the users, the program can be used to back up complete hard disks or individual directories.

In the first step, Time Machine generates a complete copy of the information to be backed up, after which only information is saved that has been changed or added since the last backup (incremental data backup).

If the information is backed up with Time Machine, the following points should be noted:

* the data on the backup media are not encrypted, so they must be protected from unauthorized access,
* the backed up information is not compressed and may occupy more than the scheduled space
* a full recovery of stored data can be time-consuming
* backup is automatically done every 30 minutes after the IT system starts, if the utility is enabled, but users can initiate a backup manually at any time,
* During operation, only data that is not encrypted with File Vault is backed up. Backing up data encrypted with File Vault can not be performed with Time Machine until the user logs off the system,
* In the case of a backup over a data network without additional system intervention, only special network-attached storage systems (NAS) can be used and
* when restoring the entire system, the Mac OS X installation DVD must be present and the client running Mac OS X must be started from this DVD because the recovery programs are located on the DVD.


Due to these and other limiting factors, the use of Time Machine is in principle only to a limited extent recommended and highly dependent on the local conditions. When choosing backup software in heterogeneous environments, we recommend using a backup utility that supports multiple platforms such as Mac OS X, Windows, and Linux.

With Time Machine, backups can be placed on external disks, on other Mac OS X systems, or on an internal disk that did not boot the system. If locally attached volumes are to be used for data backup, they must be formatted with the file system Mac OS Extended (Journaled). Alternatively, a backup can be stored in a shared directory on a remote system in the network. Prerequisite for this is the use of the Apple Filing Protocol (AFP). The SMB / CIFS protocol can be activated on the console with the following command:

defaults write com.apple.systempreferences TMShowUnsupportedNetworkVolumes 1

The TMShowUnsupportedNetworkVolumes variable is an unofficial way to unlock more network protocols. But this can not be guaranteed error-free use and Apple also gives no support for this procedure.

Time Machine can be activated in the system settings under Time Machine. Then a compatible drive must be selected to store the data. Time Machine will make a copy of all the data on the hard drive. If data is not to be captured by the data backup, exceptions can be defined in the options. If the available storage space is insufficient to perform a data backup, the user is warned that he must either delete older backups or the program automatically deletes older backups until there is enough storage space available is available ..

When performing a data backup, the following points should be noted:

* Time Machine can back up all system files needed to start the local machine. A backup should be done automatically at regular intervals and manually after major configuration changes.
* After completing the backup, the associated log file /var/log/system.log should be checked to see if any errors occurred during the backup. The log file can be viewed through the Mac OS Console utility. The backup is created by the backupd process so that all messages with this process name can be searched. Since confidential information is listed in the log file /var/log/system.log, it can only be viewed by a user with administrator privileges.
* If File Vault is enabled, the user must first log off the system before backing up to Time Machine. If the client is locked in Mac OS X or is in hibernation, no backup is possible.




## Examples 
* Mac OS X file systems HFS and HFS + must be supported for backup and restore. Other supported file systems such as FAT and NTFS are beneficial.
* It must be possible to have backups performed automatically at freely definable times or at adjustable intervals without the need for interventions other than the provision of backup data carriers.
* The backup software must support the protection of the backup medium against unauthorized access by a password or better by encryption. Furthermore, it should be able to store the saved data in compressed form.
* It is advantageous if one or more selected users can be informed automatically about the backup result and any error messages by e-mail or similar mechanisms.
* The creation of include and exclude lists must be possible. By specifying suitable include and exclude lists for the file and directory selection, it should be possible to specify exactly which data is to be saved and which can be skipped. It should be possible to combine these lists into backup profiles, save them and use them for later backups.
* The backup should be possible on a variety of media such as optical media (DVDs, CDs, ...), hard drives, tape drives, USB drives, and network drives.
* It should be possible to select the data to be backed up, depending on the date of its creation or its last modification.
* The backup software should support the creation of a full data backup as well as incremental copies (change backups).
* The backup software should be able to perform an automatic comparison of the backed-up data with the original after the backup, and perform an appropriate comparison between the reconstructed data and the contents of the backup data after data recovery.
* When recovering files, you should be able to choose whether to restore the files to their original or other location. Likewise, it should be possible to control the behavior of the software in case there is already a file of the same name at the destination. It should be possible to set whether this file is always, never or only overwritten in the event that it is older than the file to be reconstructed, or that in this case an explicit request is made to the user.




