#M 6.127 Establishment of evidence safeguards for security incidents
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

In the run-up to the handling of security incidents, procedures must be planned and established to ensure the accumulation of digital evidence. Evidence is facts or factual findings that serve as an aid to finding the truth in the context of a computer-forensic investigation or subsequent legal review. To determine the validity of the evidence and the course of action, it should be considered whether legal advice is needed on this subject. In addition to the necessary technical procedures (see Live Response and Post Mortem Analysis in M 6.126 Introduction to Computer Forensics and M 2.64 Control of the Log Filesetc.), The organization of the preservation of evidence must also be considered. This includes, for example, prepared forms for the documentation of the evidence tracks. These forms can also be used to record who has made analyzes on the digital evidence trails.

A secure repository must be chosen for the storage of seized IT systems or data carriers. This can be a vault or other space that only a minimal, trusted group of people can access.

If evidence of electronic evidence is secured, the integrity of the evidence traces shall be verified during each step of the analysis by the use of checksum procedures. The evidence traces should only be stored on specially protected systems and analyzed on such. These should, of course, be separated from potentially compromised IT systems as well as from the rest of the productive network so that no evidence is changed.

The measures and tools for securing evidence must then be checked as to whether they are suitable for securing the evidence traces in a reliable and tamper-proof manner.

The evidence-gathering procedure must be agreed with the IT Security Officer and the Security Prevention Team. To ensure that data protection issues are taken into account, the data protection officer should be involved. As soon as there is a suspicion of internal injuries, the staff representatives should also be involved. In addition, internal or external lawyers should be consulted to evaluate the procedures and methods used.



