#M 6.140 Create an emergency plan for the failure of groupware systems
Initiation Initiation: IT Security Officer, Emergency Representative, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The partial or complete failure of a groupware system in many cases has a serious impact on the workload of the users, as all server-based actions can no longer be performed. In the context of emergency preparedness, a concept should therefore be drafted on how to minimize the consequences of a failure and what activities should be carried out in the event of a failure.

The emergency planning for the groupware system used must take into account the existing emergency plan of the institution (see also module "B 1.3 Emergency Management").

The system configuration of all groupware components must be documented. This includes the description of the hard disk partitions and their uses (system, transaction log, database etc.) as well as the documentation of the hardware, the operating system of the groupware server and the required groupware services.

Important tasks to be able to maintain or re-commission the groupware system must be described in such a way that they can be carried out directly by appropriately trained personnel in the event of an emergency. The required level of detail of the documentation depends on the knowledge of the staff, which is available in an emergency. Istz. For example, if a multitasking group of trained administrators is employed in the institution, appropriate knowledge of emergency documentation may be required. If, on the other hand, only a single trained administrator works in the institution, the emergency documentation should describe important measures so that they can also be carried out by independent, competent third parties.

For the secure and uninterrupted operation of the groupware system, the groupware server must always be accessible. To reduce the impact of a server failure, groupware data can be partitioned across multiple servers. The failure of a single server then affects only part of the data. Partitioning must be planned and carried out as required. In emergency cases, at least some of the groupware clients must be usable or be ready for use as soon as possible. The procedure for this must be documented in the emergency plan.

A system failure can also lead to data loss on the groupware server or clients. For this reason, a data protection concept should be created for groupware that should be integrated into the existing data protection concept (see also module "B 1.4 Data backup concept"). As part of emergency preparedness, different compromise scenarios should be taken into account and specific instructions given in the event of compromising servers, individual services or individual user accounts.

It is strongly recommended to regularly use System Recovery Disaster Recovery. The emergency exercises should consider all aspects of a system failure or compromise. Those responsible should rebuild individual services (eg after a compromise) and rebuild in a special test environment. The test system should be as similar as possible to the production system.

In some cases, data recovery or repair of a groupware system may involve sensitive access information, such as: cryptographic keys or passwords, necessary. It must be ensured that the emergency plan defines a procedure for such cases. Furthermore, data backup or other measures must ensure that this information is available in the event of an emergency.

A restart plan must be created that ensures the controlled startup of the groupware system after a failure.



