#M 6.18 Redundant cable routing
Responsible for initiation: Responsible for the individual applications, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, building services

With redundant routing, additional connections are established between suitable points in the network in addition to the lines used in normal operation. These should be led over another route. This makes it possible to switch to the redundant connection in the event of a fault. This switching can be done automatically or by hand. The automatic switching is to be displayed in a place that causes the fault elimination on the normal line.

The functionality of redundant lines must be checked for their functionality at useful intervals by actual use. The dimensioning, the test intervals and the fundamental necessity of redundant lines are directly dependent on the availability request to the network. Also, consider the ratio of the redundant line provisioning time to the normal line recovery time. However, it is of vital importance whether they are public services (eg telecoms) or private ones.

* In the case of public lines, the user has no influence on their protection. The public network basically provides a sufficient number of redundant lines. In most cases, it is sufficient to restore the connection in case of failure of a connection (irrespective of whether it is a fixed connection or a heat pipe) by setting up a heat pipe. The circuit of redundant leased lines is usually too expensive and usually dispensable.
* In a private network, the operator can significantly influence the security of lines. Cost considerations usually lead to the fact that there are no redundant lines. However, in private networks, redundant lines, in addition to manufacturing costs, do not incur ongoing expenses.




