#M 6.102 Behavioral rules for WLAN security incidents
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

If the WLAN behaves in an unintended manner (eg WLAN is not available for a long time, access to network resources is not possible, network performance breaks down permanently), this may be caused by a security incident be. This may have been caused by an attacker, misconfiguration or system failure.

Then the users should pay attention to the following points:

* You should back up your work results, stop Wi-Fi access, and disable your client's Wi-Fi interface.
* If error messages appear or the client has not behaved normally, they should be accurately documented by the users. It should also be documented what the user did before or during the security incident. As a result, the reason for the incident may be narrowed down more quickly by the administrators and faster countermeasures can be initiated.
* The administrators must be notified by the users via a suitable escalation level (eg User Help Desk). It must be ensured that the administrator is not significantly hampered by the notification process in his work.


Administrators should take appropriate countermeasures in the event of a security incident. Possible actions are for example:

* Shutdown of access points
* Block communication at the transfer point between distribution system and LAN / Internet
* Shutting down servers (Web server or control server in the production environment or similar)
* Deactivation of the WLAN interface of the WLAN client
* Checking the configurations of the access points
* Backing up all files that could provide information about the nature and cause of the problem that has occurred (for example, whether an attack actually occurred and how the attacker could invade it), d. H. in particular backup of all relevant log files
* if necessary, restore the original configuration data (see M 6.52 Regular backup of the configuration data of active network components)
* Notifying users to check their work areas for any irregularities.


If access points have been stolen, targeted security measures must be taken, such as:

* Change of all used cryptographic keys, eg. the PSKs when using WPA-PSK or WPA2-PSK
* Configuration change on RADIUS servers to exclude the stolen access point (IP, name, RADIUS client, shared secret, IPSec)


The possible consequences of safety-critical events must be investigated. Ultimately, all necessary measures must be taken to prevent the abusive use of stolen devices to access the institution's network. If a WLAN client has been stolen, using certificate-based authentication will also require client certificates to be revoked.



