#M 6.64 Elimination of security incidents
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

As part of incident management, troubleshooting monitors whether a similar failure has already occurred and a suitable solution is in place, for example by correcting the cause of the fault or by just eliminating or avoiding its symptoms, So a workaround is found.

Since this process step has an iterative character and the disruption can be assigned to different support levels according to their technical knowledge for analysis and diagnosis, the roles and responsibilities as well as the flow of information must have already been established in advance with the security management.

So there is a review of the incident against:

* Detected problems
* Known Errors
* Planned or implemented changes in IT components


If a workaround is found, the necessary implementation measures must be initiated immediately. The goal of providing a workaround is to enable users to reuse the disrupted service at least to a limited extent (restart in restricted operation). In addition, this minimizes the impact of the disruption on the business processes and gives more time to provide a final solution.

Once the cause of a security incident has been identified, the necessary measures to remedy it should be selected and implemented. To do this, the problem must first be limited and eliminated, and then the normal state must be restored (see M 6.133 Restoring the operating environment following safety precautions).



## Examples 
* Computer Emergency Response Teams (CERTs) (see also M 2.35 Gathering information on system vulnerabilities),
* Manufacturer or distributor of the affected IT systems (see also M 4.107 Use of manufacturer and developer resources),
* Manufacturer or distributor of the security systems used, such as computer virus protection program, firewall, access control, etc.
* external consultants with security-specific expertise.




