#M 6.54 Rules of conduct after loss of network integrity
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

If the network behaves in an unintended manner (eg servers are not available, access to network resources is not possible, network performance breaks down permanently), there may be a loss of network integrity. This may have been caused by abusive use of the network, eg. due to changes in the configurations of the active network components or their damage.

Then the users should pay attention to the following points:

* Backup of the work results and, if necessary, termination of active programs.


* The administrator must be notified by the user about a suitable escalation level (eg User Help Desk). It must be ensured that the administrator is not significantly hampered by the notification process in his work.


The network administrator should do the following:

* Limiting the faulty behavior to a network segment or a network component,
* Check the configuration of the existing active network components (including the control of the passwords),


* Backing up all files that could provide information on the nature and cause of the problem that has occurred (for example, whether an attack has actually occurred and how the attacker was able to invade it), d. H. especially saving all relevant log files,
* if necessary, restore the original configuration data (see M 6.52 Regular backup of the configuration data of active network components),
* if necessary, check the hardware used (cabling, connectors, active network components, etc.) for defects and
* Notifying users to check their work areas for any irregularities.


If there are signs of an intentional attack on the Net, immediate action is needed to minimize damage and prevent further damage. For this purpose, an alarm plan is required in which the steps to be initiated are listed and which persons are to be informed about the incident (see also M 6.60 Definition of reporting channels for security incidents). The alert plan may also contain information as to whether and how the DPO and the Legal Department should be involved.



