#M 6.157 Development of a redundancy concept for applications
Responsible for initiation: specialist responsible, IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: specialist responsible, IT manager

If there is a high degree of protection required regarding the basic value of the availability in a business process or specific information, the creation and implementation of a redundancy concept may be useful for this purpose (general information on redundancy is provided in measure M 1.52 Redundancy, Modularit t and scalability in the technical infrastructure). For a redundancy concept, based on the supplementary safety analysis and risk analysis (see BSI Standard 100-3), it is determined which room and building infrastructures, systems, network components and cable routes are subject to the high protection requirements of the business process or the Information affects. Building on this, the redundancy concept defines the technical and organizational measures with which the required availability is to be ensured.

The redundancy concept must be checked for plausibility with the general emergency concept (see M 6.114 Creation of an emergency concept) and, if necessary, adjusted according to the general requirements. The measures from the redundancy concept must be tested and practiced. These tests and exercises should be coordinated with the institution's emergency management testing and exercises (see M 6.117 Tests and Emergency Exercises). Depending on the requirement for the availability of the respective elements of the information network, the following approaches can be taken into account in order to be able to bridge their failures:



## Examples 
* Organizational regulations should be created for an emergency operation. These regulations may provide for some applications to return to paper-based work. In addition, applications should be prioritized and considered to switch off applications that have a lower priority, and to make the resources thus freed up available to higher priority applications.
* It should be examined whether premises, IT systems and other infrastructures of data processing systems can be used in other institutions with which there is cooperation.
* For applications of higher priority, it must be checked whether the applications are capable of using redundancy at the system level. To do so. B.Load Balancing, Cluster, or Cloud Capabilities. These can be used accordingly, they may also have to be manufactured at first.
* It is important for higher priority applications to see if these applications are capable of using redundancy at the service level, eg. short-term panning to an alternative databaseetc.These can be used accordingly, under certain circumstances they must first be made.




