#M 6.24 Create an emergency boot medium
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

When setting up a computer, a boot medium should be created that can be used to start the system if a hard drive fails or to create a controlled system state if a malicious program occurs. Such media may be, for example, CDs whose production the respective operating system may offer, but it is also possible to create specially designed CDs or portable drives (for example USB sticks or external hard disks with a USB or Firewire interface). The nature and extent of the emergency boot medium depends on the purpose of the computer and the existing interfaces.

The emergency boot medium can be used, among other things, for the following problems:

* Data loss due to incorrect operation,
* Operating and administration errors that prevent use and reboot
* Infection of the system with malicious programs (for example, computer viruses),
* Compromising the system by an attacker, or else
* Hardware problems.


Ideally, the rescue boot media should contain all the programs and data needed to investigate and, if possible, resolve the issues. If necessary, different media can be created for different problem scenarios.

The following programs are recommended as basic equipment for an emergency boot medium:

* Virus protection programs with current signatures,
* Programs for editing configuration files or databases of the system (editors for files, registry or similar),
* Program to restore the boot sector and the MBR (Master Boot Record) of the system disk,
* Backup / recovery programs,
* Diagnostic programs for analyzing hardware defects.


In addition, programs can be added for further analysis, such as forensic investigation of a compromised system.

It is important that all programs and libraries are loaded exclusively from the boot medium. No components of the installed system may be used. When creating the boot medium, it is also important to ensure that not only the necessary programs but also all the drivers required for access to the built-in disks of the computer are available. These include, for example, drivers for hard disk controllers (in particular RAID controllers) and drivers for hard disk encryption or hard disk compression.

If the boot medium has enough storage space, additional programs or documentation can be stored on the medium. For example, it can increase the efficiency of debugging if the boot media always contains up-to-date documentation of the system configuration.

The emergency boot medium itself must be free from viruses and other malicious programs. For this reason, only programs originating from trustworthy sources (for example, directly from the manufacturer's CD) or whose digital signature has been checked must be used. At least once after the creation and every change, the boot medium should also be checked with a virus protection program.

It is not absolutely necessary to create a separate boot medium for each system. A correspondingly flexible boot medium can be sufficient for a large number of different systems. The same operating system does not necessarily have to be used on the boot medium as on the target system itself. However, for compatibility reasons, this is often advantageous. However, it must be ensured by appropriate tests that the medium really works on all computers for which it is to be used. Depending on the operating system, system-specific aspects must also be considered, which are described in the respective IT-Grundschutz modules.

After changes to the target system, such as an operating system update or configuration changes, you may need to update the emergency boot media and the documentation stored thereon. Changes to the boot medium must be documented.

The emergency boot medium must be quickly accessible to system administrators so that valuable time is not lost in the event of a failure. On the other hand, it must also be kept safe so that unauthorized persons have no access to it.

The emergency boot media function should be periodically tested and the operation of the programs stored on it monitored to ensure that the media is functioning in the event of problems and the administrators are familiar with the operation. It should be considered to keep with the medium a short printed manual, which summarizes the most important steps for typical application scenarios.



