#M 6.57 Create an emergency plan for the failure of the management system
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

A management system can also fail for various reasons, such as a computer crash due to software or hardware errors, a power failure or sabotage. Since management systems are mainly used for larger systems, these systems should have both an emergency preparedness concept as described in module  B 1.3 Emergency Management and a data backup concept (see module B 1.4 Data backup concept).

Within the framework of such an emergency preparedness concept, regulations must also be defined and documented for the failure of the management system. In particular, provisions should be made that contain behavioral guidelines for the failure of the various management system components (manager, management server, management console).

Furthermore, the creation of a recovery plan for the entire management system or its individual components is mandatory. Ideally, an automatic restart of the management system should take place. As part of the backup process, backup copies of the management system software should be available in the event of a total data loss (disk crash). The repository must be noted in the emergency manual. Likewise, the knowledge required to gain access or access to the repository must be noted there, eg. Names and telephone numbers of the employees, the required safe combinations or passwords are known (see also M 2.22 Storing the password).



