#M 6.84 Regular backup of system and archive data
Responsible for initiation: Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, IT Manager

Electronic archiving systems are subject to the same data loss risks as other IT systems. The selection of suitable data carriers, eg. optical archive media alone does not provide sufficient protection against loss, for example, in case of destruction or theft of the archive medium itself.

A redundant storage of the archive data, the associated index database and the system data is therefore indispensable. For data backup, the procedure described in block "B 1.4 Data backup concept" must be used.

As an alternative to data backup of the archive data, a redundant storage on physically separate and set up in different fire departments archive systems can be done. Some archiving system manufacturers offer high availability solutions. Nevertheless, in this case too, a backup of the archive system itself and the index database must take place.

The following tasks have to be considered for the backup of the data and the handling of the storage media:

* It is necessary to create a regular backup of the archived documents and the associated index database. This can z. For example, the following procedure can be used: daily backup (weekday automatic differential backups), weekly backup (automatic differential backups) and full backup once a month, and configuration setup and changes.


* Only storage media according to manufacturer's instructions should be used.
* If a jukebox is used as the storage unit for archiving, it must be ensured that the storage media can only be removed from the Jukebox and inserted into it programmatically. A manual and thus uncontrolled removal or insertion of the media should be excluded.
* It must be documented which media are used (online) and taken (offline) at what time in the archive system, in order to avoid that data is deleted or added to removed media unauthorized.


* All media are to be labeled confusingly.
* Offline media should be stored carefully, so that on the one hand they are only accessible to administrators and, on the other hand, they are protected against damaging environmental influences. This can be achieved, for example, by storage in a sealed fireproof and burglar-proof steel cabinet (S 120 DIS, VdS class III).
* Backup copies of the individual media are to be separated from the archiving system in such a way that they can be completely reconstructed even after a destruction of the archive. The premises are to be protected from the entry of unauthorized persons.


* The chosen procedure for data backup must be documented. In addition, it must be documented when and which backup copies have been created and where they have been outsourced (see also M 6.37 Data backup documentation).
* Since all backup media have a limited lifespan, they must be regularly replaced with new ones according to the manufacturer's recommendations.
* All created data backups must be regularly checked for readability and, if necessary, transferred to new storage media.


* At regular intervals and during configuration changes, check the usability of the fuses and the system's ability to restart and recover. This test goes beyond just reading the backup media and verifies that the archive can be rebuilt based on the backed-up data without data loss. The result has to be documented.
* When re-encrypting archive data (see also M 2.264 Regular processing of encrypted data during archiving), the data stored on backup media must be re-encrypted and old media deleted or destroyed become.
* If data backups are imported back into the archive system, it must be checked whether data losses have occurred as a result, ie whether data to be archived must be re-recorded. In addition, it must be checked whether there are any deletion marks for the re-recorded data that must be taken into account.




