#M 6.27 Secure update of the BIOS
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

Many IT systems, such as PCs, require a basic input output system (BIOS) for startup or operation. This BIOS consists of program code and data and is used to make important configuration settings on the IT system and to provide basic input / output functions. In many cases, these functions load the actual operating system, which then either takes control of the hardware itself or continues to rely on BIOS functions. The BIOS is usually stored in special memory modules (eg EEPROM or Flash EPROM), the content of which is retained even when the power supply is switched off.

Particularly in the case of PCs, the variety of configuration options has meant that the BIOS has become very complex and thus more error-prone. Many manufacturers have therefore decided to implement an update mechanism for the BIOS and regularly provide error-corrected versions of the BIOS. To carry out the BIOS update, the manufacturer usually also offers a special program with which the contents of the corresponding memory modules can be overwritten. If a special program for updating the BIOS is offered, then the trustworthiness of its source, its timeliness and freedom from viruses must be ensured.

Since the BIOS accesses the hardware directly and is still loaded before operating systems and bootloaders, manipulating the BIOS is particularly difficult to detect. For this reason, only administrators should have the right to install a new BIOS.

In principle, the update mechanism for the BIOS should be used to equip IT systems with as few error-free BIOS versions as possible. However, the following notes should be noted:

* The first thing to do is to back up the currently installed BIOS. For this purpose, the software offered by the manufacturer usually offers the option of reading out the installed BIOS and saving it as a file. If problems arise after the BIOS update, this BIOS version can be restored. If the mainboard has a redundant BIOS on a separate chip, the backup can be omitted.


* In the case of central IT systems, for example servers, network interface elements and PBXs, the currently used and the last version of the BIOS that should be operational should be archived. It is important to ensure that the file can be clearly assigned to the respective IT system.


* In many cases, a BIOS update affects the stored configuration data. Under certain circumstances, all settings made are reset to default values ??and are thus lost. Although a modern BIOS for PCs is able to determine many configuration data (Auto Detect), it may be necessary to document the settings made before the BIOS update, especially for more specialized devices. For this, the recommendations of the manufacturer should be observed.
* An attacker could try to replay an older BIOS version to exploit their vulnerabilities. BIOS updates should therefore be documented (at least in areas with high protection requirements) as part of patch and change management.


* BIOS updates and software for importing BIOS updates are often provided by the manufacturer on the Internet. It is important to ensure that both are sourced only from the manufacturer or official mirror servers. In case of doubt, the manufacturer should ask whether a certain version provided on the Internet has actually been released by the manufacturer.


* Incompatibilities or corrupted files can cause an IT system to stop working after a BIOS update. Often it is not even possible to restore the previous, functional BIOS version. As a rule, only the dealer or the manufacturer can then make the device operational again and the IT system may not be available for a longer period of time. Therefore, it must be ensured before the BIOS update that a suitable alternative solution (eg a replacement device) is available if such a failure can not be tolerated.


* New BIOS versions should be tested as much as possible before use. However, this is only possible if there are several IT systems that all work with the same BIOS. In this case, the new BIOS version should initially be installed on only one of these IT systems, and this device should be observed for some time in operation. If there are no problems, the other IT systems can be retraced. Note: It may seem attractive to run this test in a virtual environment. However, since a virtual environment never exactly simulates the real machine's existing hardware, such a test can not be trusted. The running of a new BIOS must therefore be checked on a real system.
* Some manufacturers do not simply recommend the latest BIOS version for their devices. Instead, there are tables in which a specific BIOS version is recommended, depending on the deployment scenario or model number of the IT system. This mainly concerns network coupling elements. The recommendations of the manufacturer should be observed.




