#M 6.58 Establishment of a procedure for the treatment of security incidents
Responsible for initiation: administration / company management

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

With the increasing integration of information technology in all processes of a public authority or a company, the dependence on their correct functioning also continues to increase. An important task of the security management is therefore the preparation for the adequate handling of security incidents of all kind. Security incidents can be triggered by a multitude of events and z. B. Loss of availability, integrity and / or confidentiality of data, individual IT systems or the entire network.

Security incidents that require special treatment in the context of security management are those that have the potential for major damage. Security issues that may cause or cause only localized and minor damage should also be resolved in local responsibility so as not to overburden security management.

The handling of security incidents as part of information security management has the following objectives:

* Responsiveness to ensure that security incidents and security issues are identified in good time and reported to a competent authority,
* Decision-making ability, whether it is a local security problem or a security incident,
* Ability to act so that the necessary measures are taken and implemented at short notice in the event of a security incident,
* Minimizing damage by informing other potentially affected areas in good time and
* Effectiveness in which the ability to handle security incidents is monitored and monitored.


In order to be able to achieve these goals, a suitable procedure for the treatment of security incidents has to be established, ie to build meaningful and proven processes for dealing with security incidents. Procedures and rules for the different types of security incidents should be clearly defined. A mandatory requirement is that the authorities or management be involved and ultimately put in place the procedures for the handling of security incidents, in order to ensure the necessary awareness of information security, the allocation of decision-making powers and the support of the Security objectives.

As part of security management, the treatment of security incidents should be regulated in the security policy or security policy of the agency or company.

Here it must be specified that security incidents and security problems are reported by the users and the parties involved to the responsible security officer. In addition, the decision-making processes must be described and the need for safety measures motivated.

The handling of security incidents also needs to be reconciled with emergency management because there are many similar approaches to dealing with security-related incidents that should work well together. If there is a special role for troubleshooting in the institution, this should also be included.

In addition to a procedure, suitable organizational structures for the treatment of security incidents are to be defined. For this purpose, it is to be regulated who has the responsibility for the occurrence of security incidents. Among other things, the following groups are responsible for the tasks described as examples:

* User: Report security issues and issues
* Administrators: receiving messages and making initial decisions between the security problem and incident and initiating the escalation
* Responsible for applications: Participation as the bearer of the protection requirements of the affected business processes and applications in decision-making and the selection of measures
* IT Security Officer or Security Management: Receiving messages and making decisions between the security problem and incident, engaging the escalation path and initiating necessary action
* Security Incident Team: a team composed of affected administrators, IT users, IT security officers, public relations and, where appropriate, senior management, to handle a security incident
* Emergency Representative or Emergency Management: Receiving messages and making decisions between incident handling and escalation to emergency management
* Public relations or press office: if necessary, preparation of the information policy regarding the security incident
* Revision: review of the management system and follow-up of a security incident
* Authority / Management: Final decision-making


The responsibilities are to be regulated and put into effect. Further, in measure M 6.59, responsibility for security incidents is defined.

The more critical a security incident is, the more competencies are usually needed to handle the security incident. This can lead so far that the authorities or company management must be informed and switched on, in order to be able to initiate necessary measures such as prohibition of the disclosure of information, intervention of the police, cost-effective substitute measures etc. , A security incident can also result in escalation to emergency management. However, this requires a pre-established strategy of who should be consulted in which cases (see M 6.61 escalation strategy for security incidents).

In order to be able to measure the effectiveness of a management system for the treatment of security incidents and to promote the necessary practice of these management tasks, exercises or simulation games are to be carried out. Since this requires a considerable amount of personnel and can also have a negative impact on the normal course of business, exercises on the most important areas should be limited. Further suggestions can be found in measure M 6.68 Efficiency review of the management system for the treatment of security incidents.

The individual processes, specifications and processes should be described in a document on how to handle security incidents. This document must be updated at regular intervals and made known to the person concerned in an appropriate manner.



