#M 6.117 Tests and emergency exercises
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, emergency officer

Responsible for implementation: Emergency Representative

In order to check the effectiveness of emergency management measures, regular tests and emergency exercises must be carried out. This verifies the validity, manageability and comprehensibility of the emergency manual. The main goals are to uncover inconsistencies in emergency plans or shortcomings in the planning and implementation of emergency measures and to train effective and smooth processes in an emergency. Typical exercises are for example:

* Functional tests (eg of generator sets, air conditioners, central servers),
* Execution of fire safety exercises,
* Carrying out an alerting and escalation,
* Staff environments,
* Command post exercises,
* the recovery after failure of individual resources or business processes
* Clearing a office building and referring to an alternative location and
* Failure of a data center and commissioning of the alternative data center.


Exercises can be carried out as plan reviews or plan discussions on the green table, as a simulation or as realistically realistic exercises.

The planning, conception, execution and evaluation of tests and exercises requires financial and human resources. The resources must be provided by the institution's management. Roles must be defined and employees named. Employees who play a role in the planning, design or execution of tests and exercises are to be trained for their tasks.

Tests and exercises must be planned. Only in this way can an effective and efficient use of financial and personnel resources for the review of all established emergency measures be achieved. Tests and exercises are to be conducted on a regular basis and on an ad hoc basis in the event of major changes in the area of ??emergency management. It is therefore necessary to carry out a multi-annual plan ensuring that the entire scope of the emergency management is covered. Various types of tests and exercises should be used to test and test all emergency plans, emergency procedures, and organizational structure of emergency response. This rough planning should include the type of tests planned, the objectives, the rough time frame and a list of resources needed. An annual timetable should specify the rough planning and define the concrete exercises.

The rough and detailed planning must be approved and signed by the institution's management.

For each test and exercise, a test or exercise concept should be prepared. This defines the details, such as type, schedule, resource usage, participants, goals pursued and process. Experience shows that lateral effects of tests and exercises can also trigger damage events. The detailed planning must therefore be designed in such a way that the risk for this is minimized. Before carrying out an emergency exercise, the consent of the authorities or company management must be obtained in writing for detailed planning.

The course of each test and each exercise must be documented in a log in such a way that an evaluation of the results is possible. The evaluation of a test or exercise is to be documented and should include the results, feedback from the participants and the practiced organizational unit, and a comparison of the result with the specified objectives of the exercise. Results include defects, gaps and suggestions for correction.

In order to remedy the identified shortcomings and gaps in emergency planning, measures must be defined, those responsible must be named for the implementation and deadlines set. The timely implementation is to be controlled by the emergency officer.



