#M 6.139 Create an emergency plan for DNS servers
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The failure of DNS in an information network has a serious impact on the operation of IT infrastructure. The problem is not the direct failure of the DNS system, but the resulting restriction on DNS-based services. Web servers are no longer accessible, the remote maintenance does not work anymore.

Depending on which DNS servers fail, the name resolution within the institution and / or outside no longer works. If the name resolution of the outside does not work any more, this will usually become public quickly, which can cause damage to the image if the file is dropped regularly or for a longer time.

It is therefore a concept to design how, in case of failure, the resulting consequences can be minimized. When defining activities, the following aspects should be considered:

* The emergency planning for DNS servers must be integrated into the existing emergency plan, see module B 1.3 Emergency Management.
* A system failure can lead to data loss. Therefore, a data protection concept has to be created for the zone files. This must be integrated into the existing data protection concept, see block B 1.4 Data backup concept.
* In addition to the emergency plan for the DNS server, an emergency plan must also exist for the underlying operating system.
* For the operation of a DNS server for inquiries from the Internet, a functioning Internet connection is required.
* The system configuration must be documented (see M 2.25 Documentation of the system configuration). Important tasks must be described so that in the event of an emergency, the entire system can be restored by IT staff without prior knowledge of this system configuration.
* If the failure was the result of an attack, the vulnerability must be remedied and documented.
* A recovery plan must be created so that the IT system (s) can be booted up again in a regulated manner.
* The emergency plan should be tested for its feasibility.




