#M 6.78 Backup under Windows clients
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: users

On Windows 2000 and Windows XP, the backup can be performed using the system's NTBACKUP.EXE utility. It should be noted that this program is not able to encrypt the backup media in general, so they must be kept protected. However, encrypted files are encrypted. Backups performed with NTBACKUP.EXE must therefore be protected from unauthorized access. In contrast to the version delivered with Windows NT, the backup program also supports backing up the data to a file. For example, local files can be written to a file on a server from where they are then written to a backup medium by server backup.

For a standard installation of Windows Vista, NTBACKUP.EXE is not available. NTBACKUP.EXE can also be used under Windows Vista, for example to back up old backups of Windows XP systems. NTBACKUP.EXE is provided for download by Microsoft. Before you install NTBACKUP.EXE, the Removable Storage Manager must be located under Control Panel | Programs | Turn Windows features on or off.

In the default installation, Windows Vista is available under Control Panel | System and Maintenance | Back up and restore the backup of individual files and create images of partitions using Windows Complete PC Backup Image. Creating a Windows Complete PC backup image can also be done using the wbadmin command-line tool. When backing up individual files, Windows Vista only supports the file types Images, Music, Videos, E-mail, Documents, TV Shows, Compressed Files, and Additional Files. Windows Vista does not support backing up the files of the file type:

* System files,
* Program files
* Files on FAT-formatted disks,
* Files in the trash,
* Temporary files and
* User profile settings


Backup of Files of Type Files EFS encrypted files are only supported in Windows Vista as of Service Pack 1. To back up individual files or create a Windows Complete PC backup image, Windows Vista supports the hard disk drive (internal or external), removable drives such as DVD and CD, and network resources.

When carrying out data backup, the following points should be noted:

* It is necessary to specify when and how often data backups should be performed on the Windows clients.
* The backup software is capable of backing up important system files, such as the local machine registry, COM + registries, boot files and system partition. This should be done at regular intervals and after major changes in the configuration. To do this, activate the respective selection boxes under the option System status.
* Dom nen controllers can also back up the Active Directory data and the SYSVOL folder data. This should be done with every backup. The relevant options can also be found under the System Status option on domain controllers.
* When carrying out the backup, it is essential to create a log file. After the operation has been completed, the log file must be checked to see if all the data to be backed up could actually be backed up or if errors occurred during the backup. It is advisable to enable the option Details under Tools / Options / Backup log, because it can also be used to determine whether all the data to be backed up has been backed up and whether the directories that should be backed up have been included in the backup.
* When restoring saved files, their access protection can be restored if specified in the properties of the restore job (Start Restore / Advanced button). By default, this option is enabled. This can only be done for data coming from a Windows NTFS file system.
* In contrast to the Windows NT version of the program, the selection of files and directories to be backed up can be stored in a file that can later be reloaded. This mechanism also makes it possible to create multiple backup variants that capture different data.
* Backups should be made at regular intervals. With the backup program NTBACKUP.EXE it is possible to schedule backup jobs for certain times. Thus, the backup can also be automated.




## Examples 
* The file systems used, ie FAT, NTFS and possibly also HPFS, should be supported during backup and restore.
* It must be possible to back up Active Directory data as well as the data of the SYSVOL folder.
* It should be possible to have backups performed automatically at pre-selectable times or at adjustable intervals without the need for manual intervention (except for the provision of backup data carriers if necessary).
* It should be possible to automatically inform one or more selected users about the backup result and any error messages via e-mail or similar mechanisms.
* The backup software should support the protection of the backup medium with a password or even better with encryption. Furthermore, it should be able to store the saved data in compressed form.
* By specifying suitable include and exclude lists for the file and directory selection, it should be possible to specify exactly which data is to be saved and which is not. It should be possible to combine these lists into backup profiles, save them and reuse them for later backups.
* It should be possible to select the data to be backed up, depending on the date of its creation or its last modification.
* The backup software should support the generation of logical and physical full copies, as well as incremental copies (change backups).
* Backup should be to optical media such as DVDs, hard drives, USB drives, and network drives.
* The backup software should be able to perform an automatic comparison of the backed-up data with the original after the backup, and perform an appropriate comparison between the reconstructed data and the contents of the backup data after data recovery.
* When recovering files, you should be able to choose whether to restore the files to the original location or to another disk or directory. It should also be possible to control the behavior of the software in the event that a file of the same name already exists at the destination. It should be possible to set whether this file is always, never or only in case overwritten in that it is older than the file to be reconstructed, or that in this case an explicit request is made.




