#M 6.164 Emergency preparedness for software development
Responsible for initiation: Head of Development

Responsible for implementation: Developer, Department

In general, software that goes beyond a simple component is developed using complex tools. In addition, a variety of project and system information is associated with the development, so that the loss of even a small part of this rather complex structure can lead to significant damage to the loss of the current state of development.

For this reason, a well-structured management and data backup of all documents, tools and components that are used in software development, is necessary. This means defining a detailed data protection and recovery concept for software development. This must take into account at least the following elements in addition to the program code:

* Requirement catalog and software specification documents
* Documentation of the system architecture, interface definitions
* Development environment, compilers, libraries
* Configuration Management System
* Test data, results and documentation
* Previous versions


The data backup and recovery concept must be tested (see M 6.41 Data reconstruction exercises). The results of the tests must be documented. Adequate emergency precautionary measures should also be taken against the failure of the development or test systems.

Software development does not just include documents, programs and systems, but also human know-how. If knowledge that is necessary for the development, maintenance and further development of an application is concentrated in one person, then this strong dependence can lead to very serious problems. In order to avoid such emergencies, attention should be paid to the following points:

* A good structuring of the entire software development is indispensable: Often, for a development problem the fast of a well-structured and documented solution is preferred. The disadvantage is that this means that connections in the software are only understood by the developers. If these are no longer available, any further development of the software is very complicated to impossible.
* The knowledge of software development should be sufficiently communicated within a development team, so that everyone may be able to assume the role of another. This avoids dependency on individuals and makes development more flexible, as tasks can be better distributed in time trouble.
* The software development must be documented in such a way that an expert in this area can understand it with the help of the documentation and develop the software further. What is needed is the documents and procedures required by quality management and change and configuration management. In the context of emergency preparedness, it should be checked whether these procedures and guidelines have been adhered to and whether the associated documentation is up-to-date and complete.


After completion of the development, a copy of the source code, the development documentation and a description of the development environment should be stored in a secure location, so that in case of problems the correctness and freedom from manipulation of the developed software can be proven at any time.

When software development has been commissioned, consideration should be given to whether an agreement with the contractor for code deposit is necessary. Information on this can be found in M 6.137 Fiduciary Deposit (Escrow).



