#M 6.74 emergency archive
Responsible for initiation: Public authorities / management, Head of IT

Responsible for implementation: Head of IT

An emergency archive contains the backup data that can be used to restore the entire system consistently.

Under no circumstances may this backup data be lost for the same cause of damage as the production data. It must also be accessible after a disaster, that is, access to the backup volumes and their transport must be timed to fit into the window that serves as the frame for the backup Recovery is on schedule. The placement in a data carrier or a data security archive alone is not sufficient because

* access could be denied, for example, by rubble,
* the location affected by the damage could be blocked by the fire brigade or investigating bodies for several days or
* An entry simply can not be possible, for example due to impaired statics.


To solve these problems, the backup volumes should be swapped out.

Here are the following options:

* An emergency archive can be set up in another component (usually two fire compartments removed) or in another building. The data carriers with the fuses must then be transported there promptly. The data backups stored there must also be protected against unauthorized access and sabotage. Depending on the risk situation, consideration must also be given to protection against fire, combustion gases, water and destruction by magnetic fields. Therefore, an accommodation in a data safe of a suitable class or a data storage archive comes into question.


* No data carriers are transported to the swap location, instead the data backup is transferred via communication links either to a robot archive or to remotely maintained mirrored disk files. For large data volumes, fiber optic cables offer this, which allow a high data rate and long links. In order to additionally increase the availability, redundant cable routes should be considered in this solution (see also M 6.18 Redundant cable routing).


The operation of an emergency archive can also be carried out by external service providers offering both data transfer and data storage. For emergencies, these companies also provide hardware components for the short-term adoption of information processing, even when needed. When selecting external service providers, they must make precise agreements and regulations regarding the scope of services and the security measures to be observed (see M 5.87 agreement on the connection to third-party networks).



