#M 6.81 Creating backups for Novell eDirectory
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The backup of an eDirectory directory service should be done together with a general server backup so that the overall state of the servers can be restored later. Thus, the backup process also depends on the underlying operating system.

To get consistent backups of the eDirectory dataset on a server, a special backup tool should be used. The following tools are provided by eDirectory for data backup:

* under Netware: SBCON.NLM
* under Windows NT / 2000: SMSENGN.EXE
* on Linux, Sun Solaris: ndsbackup utility


In addition to a full backup of the directory, Novell tools also provide the ability to back up only parts of eDirectory. In order to archive or restore individual eDirectory objects, the full distinguished name of the object must be specified. To save the entire tree, the respective Tree object must be specified. It is also possible to save the schema separately, for this the schema object must be selected. After all, parts of an eDirectory tree can also be backed up by selecting the corresponding container of the tree. All objects below this container will be saved.



Partition information can not be backed up with these backup tools. In the case of recovery, the corresponding parts must then be partitioned later. For this purpose, printed copies of the tree structure and partitions should be made and regularly updated.

The backup process of the eDirectory utilities can be adapted to the needs of the users. In particular, the Exclude / Include option can be used to exclude or include special eDirectory objects from the data backup.

Backup copies should usually be created once a week or more. This depends on how frequently important directory information changes. The backup process should always be logically traceable, and the log should be used to verify that all data has been properly backed up.



## Examples 
* Is the backup of an eDirectory directory service done together with the server backup?
* Is the backup process logically traceable?
* Is the backup log used to verify that all data has been backed up correctly?
* Are printed copies of the tree structure and partitions made and regularly updated?




