#M 6.31 Behavioral rules after loss of system integrity
Responsible for Initiation: Information Security Management, IT Leader

Responsible for implementation: administrator, user

If the Unix system behaves in an unintended manner (for example, undefined system behavior, non-discoverable data, changed file contents, constant free space reduction without saving anything), system integrity may be lost available. This may have been caused by abusive use of the system, for example, changes in system settings, trojan horses or a computer virus.

Then the users should pay attention to the following points:

* Keep Calm!
* Notify the administrator.
* Quit running programs.


The administrator should do the following:

* Shut down the system,
* Booting the system so that only access from the console is possible (eg single-user mode),


* Creating a complete data backup (This is useful, for example, if data or tracks are destroyed in the subsequent scan).


* Check the executable files for visible changes, eg. B. Creation date and file size (Since these can be restored by an attacker to their original values, the integrity of the files should be checked with checksum methods such as tripwire.),


* Deleting the executable files and restoring the original files from write-protected data carriers (see M 6.21 Backup copy of the software used) (do not re-import programs from the data backup),
* Check and, if necessary, restore system directories and files and their attributes (eg /etc/inetd.conf, /etc/hosts.equiv, cron- and at-jobs, etc.),


* Check the attributes of all user directories and files eg. For example, with checksum methods such as tripwire and if necessary reset to minimum settings (only rights for the owner, no root files in user areas, .rhost and .forward files, even locked accounts),
* Change all passwords,
* Notify the user with a request to check their areas for any irregularities.


After the change of all passwords they have to be communicated to the affected users. In this case, no password or derivation scheme known to all users should be used. It is better to create the passwords randomly and to inform the users in a reliable way, eg. in sealed envelopes. These passwords should be changed immediately after the initial registration.

If there are signs of an intentional attack against a Unix system, immediate action is needed to minimize damage and prevent further damage. For this purpose, an alarm plan is required in which the steps to be initiated are listed and which persons are to be informed about the incident (see also M 6.60 Definition of reporting channels for security incidents). The alert plan may also contain information as to whether and how the DPO and the Legal Department should be involved.

If problems arise, you can contact the BSI hotline at 0228-9582-5222 or e-mail certbund@bsi.bund.de.

If data has been deleted or changed undesirably, it can be restored from the data backups.



