#M 6.133 Restore the operating environment after security incidents
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

In order to eliminate security gaps, the affected IT systems must be disconnected from the network and all files must be backed up, which could provide information on the type and cause of the problem that has arisen. This includes in particular all relevant log files. Since all affected IT systems should be considered insecure or manipulated, the operating system and all applications on each of these IT systems must be examined for changes. In addition to programs, configuration files and user files must also be examined for manipulation. It makes sense to use test methods for this purpose. However, this presupposes that the checksums of the safe state have been collected in advance and have been transferred to read-only data carriers (see also M 4.93 Regular Integrity Check).

To make sure that any manipulations left behind by an attacker, such as Trojan horses, have really been eliminated, the original files should be rewritten from read-only media. It must be ensured that all security-relevant configurations and patches are also included. When restoring files from backups, it must be ensured that they were not affected by the security incident, eg. not already infected with the computer virus. On the other hand, examining the backups can be helpful in determining the onset of an attack or a computer virus infection.

Before restarting after an attack, all passwords on the affected IT systems should be changed. This includes IT systems that were not directly affected by manipulation, but which the attacker may have already collected information about users and / or passwords.

After restoring an IT system, it should be checked that all functionalities have been completely rebuilt. This can be done by involving users with specific application and data skills.

It should be expected that the attacker tries to attack again after restoring the safe state. Therefore, the IT systems, especially the network transitions, should be monitored with the appropriate monitoring tools. In addition to an extended log file analysis, intrusion detection and intrusion response systems could also be used (see also M 5.71 Intrusion Detection and Intrusion Response Systems).

In the event of a security incident, the solution may be implemented by the system administrator responsible, the security incident handling team, the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT), the IT system manufacturer, or a security expert.

At this stage, great importance should be attached to the documentation of the initiated measures (workaround, final solution, who is part of the measures of the know-how carriers) and the knowledge database (Problem and L Datensungsdatenbank) are updated accordingly (see also M 6.134 documentation of security incidents).

If a change request is necessary to implement the solution, it will be submitted to change management. In this case, the security incident remains marked as open until the change has been successfully completed. In critical security cases, special change management scenarios (emergency changes) usually make an immediate solution possible.

Since external service providers may be involved in remedying the malfunction, it is necessary to regulate which information about the security incident may be made accessible to whom.



