#M 6.130 Detect and capture security incidents
Responsible for Initiation: IT Security Officer

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Specialist, IT Security Officer, Emergency Representative

Not every security incident is immediately recognizable as such. Many security incidents, especially when it comes to deliberate attacks on IT systems, only come up in days or weeks. Often there are also false alarms, z. B. because hardware or software issues are misinterpreted as an infection with computer viruses.

However, in order to investigate and evaluate a safety-relevant irregularity, certain analyzes must have been carried out in advance. Count on it

* the survey of existing IT structure and IT networking,
* the survey of the contact persons or users of the IT systems,
* the collection of IT applications on the respective IT systems and
* the protection needs assessment of information, IT systems and applications.


These investigations are carried out in the first step of the application of the IT-Grundschutz and therefore have to be available to the safety management in the result.

Security incident all can be known in different ways:

* Determination by user: These typically report failures, such as As a suspected or actual virus attack, data loss or modification of information.
* Detection by a system: During system monitoring, an event is generated when a critical limit value is exceeded and either forwarded to a support team as a malfunction or automatically transferred to an incident management system. An IDS (Intrusion Detection System) reports z. For example, an attack attempt or a break in a server.
* Identification by employees from an IT department: as soon as these detect any problems, they typically register themselves in the incident detection system.
* Determined by an external partner: External parties may be the first to report a security incident, for example because they have detected deviations from the normal behavior of IT services. In this case, it is particularly important that all messages are taken seriously and forwarded to the right people, because outsiders do not always know the right people and the terms used internally.
* Information from law enforcement agencies or the press: Unfortunately, it can happen that the institution affected by security incidents only through police or press. Again, it is important that these are forwarded to the right person.


On the basis of this information, in the event of a detailed notification of a security incident, it can be decided at short notice which IT system is affected by which IT applications and with which protection requirements. Thus, of course, as in the following, of course, which business-critical information and business processes are affected, without this being explicitly mentioned each time. At the same time, it is possible to identify who is named as the point of contact and can be called in at short notice to make a decision.

If it turns out that an IT system or an IT application with a high protection requirement is affected, then there is a security incident and the specified steps for its treatment must be initiated. If, on the other hand, only IT applications and IT systems with normal protection requirements are concerned, an attempt can be made to remedy the security problem locally if it can not be expected that higher-security systems could be affected. However, a possible cumulative effect should also be taken into account if it becomes apparent that a large number of IT applications and IT systems with normal protection requirements could be affected.

If it appears that the security incident could have serious consequences and a sufficiently high degree of complexity, it may be useful to summon the security incident team (see M 6.59 Defining Responsibilities for Security Incidents) at short notice.

If platform or site-specific expertise is needed to analyze and resolve the incident, it may be useful to have the expert team responsible for handling security incidents (see M 6.123 Setting up a team of experts for the treatment of security incidents) Einzullen).

For investigation and evaluation of the security incident the following influencing factors are to be raised next:

* Which IT systems and IT applications can be additionally affected by the security incident?
* Can consequential damage also be caused by the networking of IT systems?
* For which IT systems and IT applications can damage and consequential damage be ruled out?
* How high can the direct damage or consequential damage caused by the security incident be? In particular, the dependency of the various IT systems and IT applications must be taken into account.
* What triggered the security incident (eg due to carelessness, attackers or infrastructure failure)?
* When and where did the security incident occur? This can also be well before the first observation of the security incident. Well-maintained log files are a valuable help in this investigation as well, but only if you can trust that they have not been tampered with.
* Is the security incident affecting only internal IT users or external third parties?
* How much information about the security incident has already reached the public?


If it turns out that the security incident can have serious consequences, at least the next level of escalation must be involved.

Following this survey of influencing factors, the options for action must be worked out, which consist of immediate measures and supplementary measures. In this case, the priority settings must be observed (see M 6.62 Definition of priorities for the treatment of security incidents). In addition, the necessary time periods for the implementation of these measures and the necessary costs and resources for problem solving and restoration must be estimated.

If the extent of damage, time and costs exceed a predetermined limit, the next level of escalation and decision-making must be taken into account before deciding on the choice of measures. As a result, after such a structured investigation and evaluation of a security incident, the options for action are available.

The registration of the user reported disturbances takes place in Incident Management in First Level Support. This means that the First Level Support and the Service Desk are involved in the processing cycle of the malfunction right from the start. Conflicts detected in IT operations are usually recorded by the administrators of the systems independently in a trouble ticket system or similar tools. The disturbances can therefore be recognized and accepted in different ways. This makes it clear that a clear process control is recommended for the control of fault or security incident processing.

Even when detecting a disruption in first-level support in incident management, evidence could indicate that it is a security incident without the users being aware of it. Incident management - in this case first level support - should take into account that the involvement of the security management could be necessary and the reporting person should be informed accordingly.



