#M 6.83 Emergency preparedness for outsourcing
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: administrator, IT security officer, IT manager

In principle, the same requirements apply to emergency preparedness for outsourcing as for non-outsourced operation of IT systems. The peculiarities of outsourcing operations result from the fact that emergency preparedness is also divided among different parties and the distribution of IT components also adds new components.

In general, contingency plans must exist for the systems at the client, at the outsourcing service provider and for the interfaces between the client and the service provider (eg network connection, router, telecommunications provider). In M 2.253 contract design with the outsourcing service provider, there are some indications as to which aspects should already be regulated in the service level agreement. In the emergency preparedness concept, these specifications must be precisely specified and described in detail:

* Responsibilities, contact persons and processes must be clearly regulated and fully documented.
* Detailed regulations for data backup are to be created (eg separate backup media for each client, availability, substitution rules, escalation strategies, antivirus protection).
* Detailed work instructions with specific arrangements for specific error situations are to be created.
* A concept for emergency exercises, which must be carried out regularly, must be developed.


Information security in emergency cases depends crucially on the quality of the work instructions for the staff of the outsourcing service provider. Often, the client's systems are operated by service provider personnel who have no detailed knowledge of the applications running on the IT systems. Nevertheless, the responsibility for the application lies exclusively with the client. If an error occurs in the application, the outsourcing service provider may need to troubleshoot without having extensive knowledge of the system. The emergency preparedness concept therefore requires the outsourcing service provider to provide precise instructions on how to proceed. It may also make sense to define actions that are explicitly forbidden (eg reboot a machine).

A malfunction of an application may have technical causes (eg data carrier full, network problems) or application-specific (eg processing of a wrong data record, program error, incorrect parameter setting).

In the case of technical errors without any impact on other applications, the outsourcing service provider will be able to correct the error itself. In most cases, however, cooperation with the client is necessary to prevent unwanted side effects at the application level.

If there are application-specific problems, the outsourcing service provider needs detailed and comprehensive instructions as well as lists of contact persons on the side of the client so that he can react correctly. Especially with problems with complicated applications or with extensive batch processes often knowledge is necessary, which are only available at the client.

In this case, it is also important to provide the service provider with information regarding the protection needs of the data and systems concerned so that reasonable care can be taken.



