#M 6.96 Emergency preparedness for a server
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator

The partial or complete failure of a server can have serious consequences if the server is an integral part of in-house workflows or supports a publicly available offer (such as in e-commerce or e-government applications).

In the context of emergency preparedness, a concept should therefore be drafted on how the consequences of a failure can be minimized and what activities should be carried out in the event of a failure.

The following aspects must be considered:

* The emergency planning for the server must be integrated into the existing emergency plan (see also module B 1.3 Emergency Management).


* A system failure can also lead to data loss. Therefore, as part of the general data protection concept (see also B 1.4 Data backup concept), a data protection concept for the server must be created. Not only the server itself needs to be taken into account, but also the systems on which the operation of the server depends.
* Within the scope of maintenance and service contracts or own storage, the supply of spare parts must be ensured within a period of time. Downtime should therefore be reduced to a manageable size. In the case of special demands on the availability of the server, a high availability solution may have to be used.


* The system configuration must be documented. Important tasks must be described so that the entire system can be restored in an emergency even without prior knowledge of this system configuration. The documentation should by no means be exclusively electronic, but instructions for action should also exist in paper form. If necessary, configuration files can also be stored separately on CD.
* A recovery plan must be created which ensures the controlled startup of the system.


* All necessary procedure descriptions must be regularly checked and rehearsed. It may be necessary to consider varying approaches for different operating systems.




