#M 6.62 Defining priorities for the treatment of security incidents
Responsible for initiation: Public authority / management, IT security officer

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer

A security incident is experienced experience by a chain of different causes. Different business processes, applications and IT systems are typically affected, and the resulting losses can also be very diverse. Therefore, it is important to prioritize the priorities for troubleshooting as much as possible. Among other things, this order of priority depends on the order in which the problems are to be addressed.

Furthermore, prioritization is strongly geared to the circumstances of the respective institution. The following questions have to be answered for the priority setting:

* Which protection requirement categories and damage scenarios are relevant for the institution?
* What is the protection requirement of the business processes and applications? How is the protection requirement of the individual IT systems, rooms and communication connections derived from this?
* In what order should damage to the individual protection requirement categories and damage scenarios be remedied?
* Which internal or external framework conditions should be considered when setting priorities?


Assistance for the processing of the questions is provided by a determination of the protection requirements according to IT-Grundschutz. In this determination of protection requirements, the potential damage is assigned to defined damage scenarios and the information and business processes relevant to the institution are categorized with regard to their protection requirements (see the corresponding chapters of the IT-Grundschutz procedure in BSI Standard 100-2).

Example: Relevant damage scenarios are:

* Violation  against laws, regulations or contracts,
* Impairment of the right to informational self-determination,
* Impairment of personal integrity,
* Impairment of the performance of the task,
* Negative external effect and
* Financial impact.


Likewise, a definition of the categories of protection needs is drawn up on the basis of damage profiles as part of the assessment of protection needs.

Example: Damage scenario Financial Impact

Table: Financial implications of damage

These definitions must be adapted to the individual circumstances of the institution and specified: If in a large company a damage in the amount of 200,000, - Euro measured in terms of sales and the IT budget still minor damage, so can f  For a small business, a loss of 10,000 euros can be existentially threatening. Therefore, it often makes sense to define a percentage size as the limit, which is based on the total sales, the total profit or a similar reference value.

In an example company, the following concrete determination may have been made:

Table: Specifying the financial impact of damage

Based on these categories and scenarios, priority can be given to the main business processes and IT systems, as described below. In a table, the damage scenarios are listed in the first column. The three subsequent columns are given the protection category categories normal, high and very high. Subsequently, each combination of damage scenario and protection requirement level is assigned a priority. On the one hand, the priority setting can be defined by a priority classification with classifications such as

1 = particularly important, 2 = important, 3 = subordinate

or by establishing an order.



## Examples 
* Is there a prioritization for the treatment of security incidents? Is she up to date?
* Is the priority set agreed with the authorities or company management?
* Is the prioritization known to all decision-makers in the management system for handling security incidents?
* Are the priority classes stored in incident management (troubleshooting)?




