#M 6.1 Creation of an overview of availability requirements
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Responsible for the individual applications

The availability requirements for the IT applications operated in an IT system and their data are to be determined. Since an IT application does not necessarily require every component of the IT system, the availability requirements of the IT applications must be mapped to the essential components of the IT system. The result of this work can be presented in the form of an overview with the following contents:

(Reading: The IT component Host in the IT System Central System has a maximum tolerable downtime of 3 hours due to the IT accounting application.)

A practicable procedure is to question the process manager about the tolerable downtimes of the IT components used for the individual IT applications, and then to list the results according to the IT system and components in the table.

The overview makes it easier to extract the particularly time-critical components of the IT system for which emergency preparedness is indispensable. In the event of a component failure, this overview also provides information about the affected IT applications and their availability requirements.

The requirements for availability must be justified by the users or departments, if this has not already been done elsewhere. The availability requirements must be confirmed by the authorities or management.

If one component of the IT system fails, this overview allows a quick statement as of when an emergency occurs. The fact that an emergency does not necessarily have to occur even if a particularly time-critical component fails can be determined by means of a replacement procurement plan and a study of internal and external alternative options.



