#M 6.52 Regular backup of the configuration data of active network components
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: IT security officer, IT manager

High demands are placed on the availability of the central active network components, since in general many users are dependent on a local network functioning smoothly. In order to be able to resume operation as quickly as possible in the event of a fault, all configuration data of the active network components must be saved in electronic form (see also M 6.32 Regular data backup and M 6.91 Data backup and recovery for routers and switches). This backup can in principle locally to the individual components or preferably via the network, z. B. with the help of a network management tool. If the data has been backed up electronically, the process of restoring a configuration can be performed more quickly and more reliably and there is no need for time-consuming manual input. The re-importing the data here can automatically, for. B. by a central network management tool or manually by the intervention of an administrator.

When backing up the configuration data via the network, however, unlike a local backup, it should be noted that the transmitted data may also be read and potential attackers may receive security-critical information about the configuration of the active network components, such as B. Passwords, and thus possibly over the entire network configuration can be obtained. When backing up configuration files over the network, Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP), FTP (File Transfer Protocol), or Remote Copy Protocol (RCP) protocols are generally used, and RCP with authentication should be used if possible (see M  5.20 Use of the security mechanisms of rlogin, rsh and rcp) .TFTP does not offer any protection mechanisms against unauthorized access to the configuration data (see also M 5.21 Secure use of telnet, ftp, tftp and rexec), so that its use in principle is discouraged. If a TFTP server is still used to secure the configuration files, this may only be accessible in the administration network.

For all backup methods, a test must be performed to see if the backup was performed properly and the configuration data can be restored. This is especially true for the backup over the network, since here after a fault, the network u. U. is in a state that does not allow recovery via the network.



