#M 6.152 Emergency preparedness and regular backup in cloud computing
Responsible for initiation: IT security officer, IT manager

Responsible for implementation: Administrator, Emergency Representative

Disturbances occur in every IT operation. These can include, for example, sporadic component malfunction, device failure, or the unavailability of an entire cloud infrastructure. One of the necessary foundations for safe operation is the preparation for disruption situations.

In order to be able to react effectively and quickly in case of emergencies, diagnostics and troubleshooting must be planned and prepared in advance of the operation of cloud services in the context of emergency management. Emergency management should follow an established standard such as BSI-100-4, BS25999 or ISO22301. The fulfillment of such standards should be proven to cloud users.

Cloud management leverages the underlying IT emergency management of the cloud service provider. Special features in cloud management for emergency planning and emergency treatment are to be taken into account. These special features supplement the measures B Bauste1.3 Emergency Management.

The following peculiarities of cloud management are to be considered when implementing measure M 6.114 Creation of an emergency concept:

* The contractually agreed requirements of the cloud users must be taken into account in the emergency planning of the cloud service provider. This concerns the agreed restart parameters, the maximum tolerable downtime, the restart time, the restart level and the maximum permissible data loss.
* Cloud users should be explicitly considered when defining crisis communication within the emergency plans. It is therefore a security contact or a process responsible on the part of the cloud user with contact details in the emergency plans to name.
* Restarting provisioned services can be complex in cloud management. The order for both the restart of the cloud infrastructure and the restart of the services provided must be prioritized. This sequence must be documented in restart plans. Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) and Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) offerings require coordination with cloud users in order to plan the recovery of the components they are responsible for. For example, a cloud user must be told when to restart a cloud application after the cloud service provider has re-provisioned the required virtual machine.
* The emergency concept for virtualization must be taken into account (see measure M 6.138 Creation of an emergency plan for the failure of virtualization components): The emergency concepts for virtualization and cloud management must be coordinated, especially as often the same people in charge of the operation are affected.


The following peculiarities of cloud management are to be taken into account in the implementation of the measure M 6.117 tests and emergency exercises:

* In the emergency exercises, the recovery plans and the defined immediate measures, in particular with regard to the fail-over safeguards and fault-tolerance mechanisms set up in the cloud infrastructure, must be checked. This concerns the mechanisms that are implemented in accordance with measure M 6.153 deployment of redundant cloud management components.


The following peculiarities of cloud management are to be taken into account when implementing measure M 6.33 Development of a data protection concept:

* The cloud services are to be considered in the institution's data protection concept.
* The special requirements for the data protection concept for Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offerings have to be considered. These requirements include client separation, shared responsibilities for infrastructure, platforms, applications and information, data protection automation, cloud user intervention and configuration options, and the high complexity of the entire cloud infrastructure.
* Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings also need to be aware of these issues, but the solution is often less complex because the responsibility lies at the operating system level with the cloud user, and the backup itself responsible.




