G 0.18 Missing planning or missing adjustment
==========================================

If organizational processes that directly or indirectly serve information processing are not properly designed, this can lead to security problems. Although each individual process step is carried out correctly, damage often occurs because processes are altogether incorrectly defined.

Another potential cause of security issues is dependencies with other processes that themselves have no obvious relation to information processing. Such dependencies can easily be overlooked in the planning and thereby cause impairments during operation.

Security issues can also arise because tasks, roles, or responsibilities are not uniquely assigned. Among other things, it can happen that processes are delayed, safety measures are neglected or regulations are disregarded.

There is also a risk if devices, products, processes or other means of realizing information processing are not used properly. Selecting an inappropriate product or vulnerabilities, for example in the application architecture or in the network design, can lead to security issues.

Examples:

* If maintenance or repair processes are not tailored to the professional requirements, this can lead to unacceptable downtime.
* There may be an increased risk of attacks on your own IT systems if security-related requirements are not taken into account in the procurement of information technology.
* If required consumables are not provided on time, their dependent IT processes may stall.
* Weaknesses can occur if unsuitable transmission protocols are selected when planning an IT process.
The information technology and the entire environment of an authority or a company are constantly changing. Be it that employees leave or join, new hardware or software is procured or a subcontractor declares bankruptcy. If the necessary organizational and technical adjustments are not taken into account or only insufficiently taken into account, hazards can arise.

Examples:

* Structural changes in the building alter existing escape routes. Since the staff were not sufficiently informed, the building can not be cleared in the required time.
* When transmitting electronic documents, care is taken not to provide a readable data format for the receiving party