G 0.14 Spying out information (espionage)
=============================================

Espionage refers to attacks that aim to collect, analyze and process information about companies, people, products or other target objects. The processed information can then be used, for example, to give another company certain competitive advantages, to extort persons or to be able to build a product.

In addition to a multitude of technically complex attacks, there are often much simpler ways to get valuable information, such as bringing together information from multiple publicly available sources that may look harmless individually but may be compromising in other contexts. Since confidential data is often not sufficiently protected, it can often be spied on optically, acoustically or electronically.

Examples:

Many IT systems are protected against unauthorized use by means of identification and authentication mechanisms. B. in the form of user ID and password verification. However, if the password is sent unencrypted over the line, an attacker may be able to read it.
* In order to be able to withdraw money at a cash dispenser, the correct PIN for the ec or credit card used must be entered. Unfortunately, the privacy of these devices is often inadequate, so an attacker can easily look over a customer's PIN when entering the PIN. If the attacker steals the card afterwards, he can use it to loot the account.
* To gain access to or otherwise manipulate access to a PC, an attacker may send the user a Trojan horse, which he has attached as an allegedly useful program to an e-mail. In addition to direct damage, Trojan horses can be used to spy out a wealth of information not only about the individual computer, but also about the local network. In particular, many Trojan horses aim to spy on passwords or other credentials.
* In many offices, the workplaces are not acoustically well shielded from each other. This allows colleagues as well as visitors to overhear conversations and gain knowledge of information that is not intended for them or even confidential.