G 0.43 Importing messages
=================================

Attackers use this form of attack to send specially prepared messages to systems or individuals with the goal of gaining or benefiting the victim for themselves. For example, to construct the messages properly, the attackers use interface descriptions, protocol specifications, or communications history records.

There are two special cases of message loading that are important in practice:

* In a "replay attack" (attacking messages) attackers record valid messages and play this information at a later date (almost) unchanged. It may also be sufficient to use only parts of a message, such as a password, to invade an IT system without authorization.
In a man-in-the-middle attack, the attacker unnoticed takes on a mediation position in the communication between different participants. Usually, he pretends to the sender of a message to be the actual recipient, and he pretends the recipient to be the actual sender. If this succeeds, the attacker can thereby receive messages that are not intended for him and evaluate them before forwarding them to the actual recipient and manipulate them in a targeted manner.
An encryption of the communication offers no protection against man-in-the-middle attacks, if no secure authentication of the communication partners takes place.

** Examples **

* An attacker records the authentication data (such as user ID and password) during a user's login process and uses that information to gain access to a system. In the case of purely static authentication protocols, an encrypted password can also be used to access a third-party system without authorization.
* To cause financial harm to the employer (company or agency), an employee gives up an approved order multiple times.