G 0.27 Resource shortage
=======================

If the resources available in one area are inadequate, bottlenecks in the supply of these resources, overloads and outages can occur. Depending on the nature of the resources involved, a small event whose occurrence was also predictable may ultimately affect a wide variety of business processes. Resource shortages can occur in IT operations and communication links, but also in other areas of an institution. If only insufficient human, time and financial resources are made available for certain tasks, this can have many negative effects. It can happen, for example, that the roles required in projects are not filled with suitable persons. If resources such as hardware or software are no longer sufficient to meet the requirements, specialized tasks may not be handled successfully.

Frequently, personal, temporal, financial, technical and other deficiencies can still be compensated in regular operation for a limited period of time. Under high time pressure, however, they become all the clearer, for example in emergency situations.

Resources can also be overloaded deliberately when someone intentionally generated an intense need for a resource and thus an intensive and continuous malfunction of the equipment provoked, see also G 00:40 Denial of service (Denial of Service).

Examples:

* Overloaded electric cables heat up, this can lead to a smoldering fire in case of unfavorable laying.
* Will new applications with higher than considered at schedule time bandwidth demands on the network operated, this can lead to a loss of availability of the entire network when the network infrastructure can not be sufficiently scaled.
* If the administrators only have sporadic control over the log files of their IT because of congestion, attacks may not be detected promptly.
* Web servers can be overloaded by a large amount of concurrent incoming requests, making controlled access to data almost impossible.
* When a company is in bankruptcy, it can happen that there is no money for urgently needed spare parts or that important service providers can not be paid.