Table of content

[toc]
 
1 description
--------------

### 1.1 Introduction

For reliable IT operations, IT systems and applications should log all or selected events related to operations and security; H. automatically save them and provide them for evaluation. Logging is used in many institutions to quickly detect hardware and software problems as well as resource bottlenecks. But also security problems and attacks on the operated services can be traced using logging data. Likewise, evidence can be secured with such data through forensic investigations after an attack on IT systems has become known.

Each information network generates local logging data from a variety of IT systems and applications. However, to get an overall view of an information network, the log information generated by various IT systems and applications can be sent to and stored centrally in a dedicated logging infrastructure. Only in this way can the logging data be selected, filtered and systematically evaluated at one point.

### 1.2 Objective

The block contains requirements with which the logging of as many security-relevant events as possible can be implemented. The aim is to securely collect, store and suitably provide all relevant data for the evaluation and to ensure their proper disposal.

### 1.3 Delimitation

The present module only considers general aspects that are necessary for adequate logging. The logging of specific IT systems or applications is not treated here, but described in the respective modules.

Logging functions already exist in many operating systems or applications or can be integrated there with additional products. To secure these functions and the stored logging data, the underlying operating system must be protected. This is not part of this module. For this purpose, the operating system-specific blocks are implemented, for. B. SYS.1.1 * General Server * and SYS.2.1 * Common Clients *.

The module must also be differentiated from the detection (see DER.1 * Detection of safety-relevant events *) as well as the reaction to security incidents (DER.2 * Incident Management *): both aspects are not dealt with in the logging module, or only in passing.

Guidelines on how to deal with personal data are regulated in the module CON.2 * Privacy *. How long and extensive logging data must be archived is also explained in the module OPS.1.1.2 * Archiving *.

2 risk situation
-----------------

The following specific threats and vulnerabilities are of particular importance in the area of ​​logging:

### 2 1 Missing or insufficient logging

In an information network, there are often IT systems or applications where logging has not been enabled by default. Sometimes individual IT systems and applications sometimes can not log at all. In both cases, important information can be lost and attacks can not be detected in time. However, this is also possible if logging is used for individual IT systems, but the logs are not merged at one central point. In information networks without central logging, it is difficult to ensure that the relevant log information of all IT systems is obtained and evaluated.
Furthermore, logging data must contain meaningful information. Among other things, the events that are logged depend on the protection requirements of the respective IT systems or applications. If this is disregarded, for example, when logging only to default settings of the IT systems or applications, this can lead to particularly relevant security events not being logged. Thus, attacks may not be detected.

### 2 2 Incorrect selection of relevant logging data

Logging data often provides important information to detect IT security incidents. Selecting the relevant messages from the large number of different log events is a particular challenge. Because many logged messages have only informative character and distract from the really important messages. If too many log messages are selected, the wealth of information can only be evaluated with great difficulty and time.

Furthermore, logging data can be discarded or overwritten if the memory or hard disk capacity of the IT system or logging infrastructure is insufficient. If this records too few or insufficiently relevant log messages, security-critical incidents could go undetected.

### 2 3 Missing time synchronization during logging

If the time is not synchronized on all IT systems in an information network, the logging data may not be correlated, or the correlation may lead to incorrect statements because the different time stamps of events have no common basis. Lack of time synchronization thus makes it difficult to evaluate collected logging data, especially when stored on a central log server. Furthermore, a faulty or missing time synchronization can lead to the fact that the logging can not be used to secure evidence.

### 2 4 Incorrect planning during logging

If logging is not planned sufficiently, IT systems or applications can not be monitored, so security-related events can not be identified and treated appropriately. Likewise, privacy violations can not be understood.

### 2 5 Confidentiality and integrity loss of logging data

Some IT systems in an information network generate logging data such as user names, IP addresses, e-mail addresses, and host names that can be assigned to specific individuals. Such information can be copied, audited and manipulated if it is not encrypted and securely stored. This can result in attackers accessing sensitive information or deliberately obfuscating security incidents through compromised logging data. Similarly, if an attacker encounters a greater amount of logging data, they can use that information to uncover the internal structure of the information network, thereby targeting their attacks.

### 2 6 Incorrectly configured logging

If logging is misconfigured in IT systems, important information is not recorded or is recorded incorrectly. It may also be that too much or wrong information is logged. For example, personal data may be logged and stored without authorization and the institution may violate legal requirements.

Similarly, misconfigured logging may allow the logging data to be in inconsistent or proprietary formats. This may make it difficult to evaluate the logs and IT security incidents remain undetected.

### 2 7 Failure of data sources
If IT systems in an information network no longer provide the necessary logging data, security incidents can no longer be adequately detected. The cause of data source failures can be hardware and software failures or incorrectly managed IT systems. Especially if it is not noticed that data sources have failed, this can lead to a false picture of the security situation in the institution. This allows attackers z. For example, you may go unnoticed for a long time, tapping business-critical information, or manipulating production systems.

### 2 8 Insufficiently sized logging infrastructure

Due to the complex information networks and diverse attack scenarios, the requirements for logging increase, since a large number of logging data must be stored and processed. Furthermore, it is common in security incidents to increase the intensity of logging. However, if the logging infrastructure is not designed for this, there is a risk that logging data will be stored incompletely. Thus, security-relevant events can no longer or only insufficiently evaluated and security incidents remain undetected.
