G 0.41 Sabotage
===============

Sabotage refers to the willful manipulation or damage of things or processes with the aim to harm the victim. Particularly attractive destinations can be data centers or communication links between public authorities and companies, since a relatively small amount of funds can be used to make a big impact.

The complex infrastructure of a data center can be selectively manipulated by targeted influencing of important components, if necessary by perpetrators from the outside, but above all by perpetrators, in order to cause operational disturbances. Particularly threatened are not sufficiently protected building technical or communication technical infrastructure as well as central supply points, which are organisationally or technically possibly also not supervised and for external ones easily and unobserved accessible.

** Examples **

* In a large data center, the manipulation of the UPS resulted in a temporary total failure. The perpetrator had repeatedly switched the UPS by hand to bypass and then manipulated the main power supply of the building. In total, four failures took place in three years. Sometimes it even came to hardware damage. The business interruption lasted between 40 and 130 minutes.
* Sanitary facilities were also housed within a data center. By clogging the drains and opening the water supply at the same time, water penetrated into central technical components. The damage caused in this way led to business interruptions in the productive system.
* For electronic archives, sabotage poses a particular risk, as many sensitive documents are usually kept in a small space. This can possibly be caused by targeted, inexpensive manipulations a great deal of damage.
