G 0.17 Loss of equipment, data carriers or documents
================================================== ======

There are a variety of causes that can lead to the loss of devices, data carriers and documents. As a result, the availability is immediately affected, but it can also get confidential information into the wrong hands, if the disks are not completely encrypted. The replacement of equipment or data media incurs costs, but also, when they reappear, information may have been disclosed or unwanted programs may have been loaded.

Especially mobile devices and mobile data carriers can easily be lost. Today, huge amounts of data can be stored on small memory cards. However, it often happens that documents in paper form are accidentally left behind, for example in restaurants or transport.

Examples:

* An employee uses the tram ride to work in the tram to view some documents. As she gets frantically off at the destination stop, she leaves the papers inadvertently on her neighbor's place. Although the documents are not confidential, several signatures of high-level executives have to be obtained again as a result.
* At a major event, an employee accidentally and unnoticed falls upon a memory card with confidential calculations on the floor while searching in his briefcase. The Finder scans the content on his laptop and sells the information to the competition.
* One manufacturer sends software update CDs to his customers for troubleshooting purposes. Some of these CDs are lost in transit without the sender or recipient being notified. As a result, the affected customers malfunction the software.
