G 0.33 Personnel loss
======================

The loss of personnel can have a significant impact on an institution and its business processes. Personnel can be unpredictable due to illness, accident, death or strike, for example. In addition, the predictable loss of staff for vacation, training or a regular termination of the employment relationship must be taken into account, especially if the remaining working time z. B. is shortened by a leave entitlement. A staff shortage can also be caused by an internal change of workplace.

Examples:

* Due to prolonged illness, the network administrator of a company stayed away from the service. In the affected company, the network initially ran error-free. After two weeks, however, after a system crash nobody was able to fix the error, since there was only this in the network operation incorporated administrator. This resulted in a failure of the network over several days.
* During an administrator's vacation, the backup media in the backup vault had to be used in an institution. The access code to the vault was changed recently and was only known to this administrator. Only after several days, the data restoration could be carried out because the administrator was not more available on vacation.
* In the event of a pandemic, more and more staff will gradually fall out in the longer term, either through the illness itself, through the necessary care of relatives or through the care of children. Also, out of fear of being infected by public transport or in the institution some employees stay away from the service. As a result, only the most necessary work can be done. The required maintenance of the systems, be it the central server or the air conditioning in the data center, can no longer be afforded. By and by, more and more systems fail.
