G 0.3 water
============

Water may affect the integrity and availability of information stored on analog and digital media. Information in the main memory of IT systems is also at risk. The uncontrolled entry of water into buildings or rooms may be caused, for example, by:

* Disturbances in the water supply or sewage disposal,
* Defects of the heating system,
* Defects in air conditioning systems with water connection,
* Defects in sprinkler systems,
* Extinguishing water in firefighting and
* Water sabotage z. B. by opening the faucets and clogging the drains.
Regardless of the way in which water enters buildings or rooms, there is a risk that utilities or IT components may be damaged or taken out of service (short circuit, mechanical damage, rust, etc.). Especially when central facilities of the building supply (main distribution for electricity, telephone, data) are located in basements without automatic drainage, penetrating water can cause very high damage.

Problems can also be caused by frost. For example, pipes may be leaking in areas prone to frost if water is at rest in the frost. Even an existing thermal insulation is overcome over time by the frost.

Example:

* In a server room, a water pipe ran below the ceiling, which was clad with plasterboard elements. As a connection of the water pipe was leaking, this was not detected in time. The escaping water initially collected at the deepest point of the fairing before it leaked out and caused a short circuit in the power distributor underneath. As a result, both the water supply and the power supply of the affected part of the building had to be completely switched off until the final repair.
