G 0.42 Social engineering
=========================

Social engineering is a method to gain unauthorized access to information or IT systems through social actions. In social engineering, human characteristics such as Helpfulness, trust, fear or respect for authority. This allows employees to be manipulated to act improperly. A typical case of attacks with the help of social engineering is the manipulation of employees by telephone call, in which the attacker z. B. outputs as:

* Vorzimmerkraft, whose supervisor wants to do something quickly, but has forgotten his password and urgently needs it now,
* Administrator calling for a system error as he still needs the user's password to troubleshoot.
When critical questions come up, the curious person is supposed to be "just a temporary worker" or an "important" person.

Another strategy in systematic social engineering is building a longer relationship with the victim. Through many unimportant phone calls in advance, the attacker can gather knowledge and build trust, which he can later exploit.

Such attacks can also be multileveled by building on the knowledge and techniques acquired in previous stages.

Many users know that they are not allowed to pass passwords on to anyone. Social engineers know this and therefore need to reach the desired destination by other means. Examples for this are:

* An attacker may ask the victim to execute unknown commands or applications, eg. This is because it should help with an IT problem. This can be a hidden statement for a change of access rights. This allows the attacker to access sensitive information.
* Many users use strong passwords, but they are used for multiple accounts. If an attacker operates a useful network service (such as an e-mail address system) that users must authenticate to, they can access the desired passwords and logins. Many users will use the credentials they use for this service with other services as well.
When attackers illegally obtain passwords or other authentication features, such as social engineering, this is often referred to as "phishing" ("password" and "fishing").

In social engineering, the attacker is not always visible. Often the victim never learns that it was exploited. If successful, the attacker does not have to expect prosecution and also has a resource to get more information later.
