G 0.19 Disclosure of information worthy of protection
================================================

Confidential data and information may only be accessible to authorized persons. In addition to integrity and availability, confidentiality is one of the core values ​​of information security. For confidential information (such as passwords, personal data, corporate or official secrets, development data) there is an inherent risk that these will be disclosed by technical failure, carelessness or intentional acts.

In this case, this confidential information can be accessed at different locations, for example

* on storage media within computers (hard disks),
* on exchangeable storage media (USB sticks, CDs or DVDs),
* in printed form on paper (printouts, files) and
* on transmission paths during data transmission.
The way in which information is disclosed can be very different, for example:

* unauthorized reading of files,
* thoughtless disclosure, z. B. in the course of repair orders,
* insufficient deletion or destruction of data carriers,
* Theft of the data carrier and subsequent evaluation,
* Listening to transmission lines,
Infection of IT systems with malware,
* Reading on the screen or listening to conversations.
When sensitive information is disclosed, it can have serious consequences for an institution. Among other things, the loss of confidentiality can lead to the following negative effects for an institution:

* Violation of laws, for example data protection, banking secrecy,
* Negative internal impact, for example demoralization of employees,
Negative externalities, such as affecting relationships with business partners, lost customer trust,
* Financial implications, such as claims for damages, fines, litigation costs,
* Impairment of the informational right of self-determination.
A loss of confidentiality is not always noticed immediately. Often turns out later, z. For example, by press inquiries that unauthorized persons have gained access to confidential information.

Example:

* Buyers of used calculators, hard drives, cell phones or similar devices often find highly confidential information such as patient data or account numbers.
