G 0.9 Failure or malfunction of communication networks
================================================== =

For many business processes nowadays intact communication links are required at least temporarily, be it via telephone, fax, e-mail or other services via local or wide area networks. If some or more of these communication links fail over an extended period of time, this can lead, for example, to

* Business processes can no longer be processed because required information can not be retrieved
* Customers can no longer reach the institution for queries
* Orders can not be submitted or terminated.
If time-critical applications are operated on IT systems that are connected via long-distance networks, the damage and consequential damage resulting from a power failure is correspondingly high if there are no alternatives (eg connection to a second communication network).

Similar problems can arise when the required communication networks are disturbed, but not completely failing. For example, communication links may have an increased error rate or other quality issues. Incorrect operating parameters can also lead to impairments.

Examples:

* Today, the Internet has become an indispensable means of communication for many institutions, including the retrieval of important information, external publicity and communication with customers and partners. Companies that specialize in Internet-based services, of course, are particularly dependent on a functioning Internet connection.
* As networks converge, voice and data services are often transported using the same technical components (eg, VoIP). However, this increases the risk that the voice services and the data services fail at the same time in a disruption of the communication technology.
