G 0.4 Pollution, dust, corrosion
=====================================

Many IT devices contain not only the electronics but also mechanically working components, such as: As with fixed and removable disks, DVD drives, printers, scanners, etc., but also fans of processors and power supplies. With increasing demands on quality and speed, these devices must work ever more precisely. Even slight contamination can lead to a malfunction of a device. Dust and pollution can, for example, be caused to a greater extent by the following activities:

* Work on walls, raised floors or other parts of buildings,
* Conversion work on the hardware or
* Unpacking of equipment (eg styrofoam).
Existing safety circuits in the devices usually lead to a timely shutdown. Although this keeps the direct damage to the device, the repair costs and the downtime small, it means that the affected device is not available.

The equipment and infrastructure can also be attacked by corrosion. This can have a negative impact not only on IT but even on the safety of buildings.

Corrosion can also indirectly create further hazards. For example, water can escape from corroded areas (see G 0.3 Water).

Overall, contamination, dust or corrosion can thus lead to failures or damage to IT components and utilities. As a result, proper information processing may be impaired.

** Examples **

* When setting up a server in a media room, along with a copier and a fax machine, the paralysis of the processor fan and power supply fan occurred one after another due to the high levels of dust in the room. The failure of the processor fan caused sporadic server crashes. The failure of the power supply fan eventually led to overheating of the power supply with the result of a short circuit, which eventually led to a total failure of the server.
* To hang a blackboard in an office, holes were drilled in the wall by the building services. The employee had to leave his office for a short time. Upon returning to work, he found that his PC was not working anymore. This was due to drilling dust that had penetrated through the ventilation slots in the PC power supply.
