G 0.5 natural disasters
=======================

Natural disasters are understood to mean natural changes that have devastating effects on people and infrastructures. Causes of a natural disaster can be seismic, climatic or volcanic phenomena such as earthquakes, floods, landslides, tsunamis, avalanches and volcanic eruptions. Examples of extreme meteorological phenomena are severe weather, hurricanes or cyclones. Depending on the location of the institution, it is exposed to varying degrees of risk due to the different types of natural disasters.

Examples:

* For data centers in flood-prone areas, there is a high risk that uncontrolled water will enter the building (flooding or rising groundwater level).
* The frequency of earthquakes, and therefore the associated risk, are highly dependent on the geographical location.
* Extremely increased solar activity has in the past already led to a number of disruptions to telecommunications infrastructure and energy supply.
Irrespective of the nature of the natural disaster, even in areas that are not directly affected, there is a risk that utilities, communication links or IT components may be damaged or taken out of service. In particular, the failure of central facilities of the building supply (main distribution for electricity, telephone, data) can cause very high damage. Operating and service personnel can be denied access to the infrastructure due to large-scale restricted areas.

Examples:

* Many businesses, even large companies, do not adequately take account of the flood hazard. For example, a company has been "surprised" several times by flood damage at the data center. The data center literally floated away within 14 months for the second time. The resulting damage amounted to several hundred thousand euros and is covered by any insurance.
* An IT system is housed in a location whose geographic location is known for volcanic activity (temporary intermittent phenomenon in which the emission phases alternate with periods of rest that are sometimes long).
