G 0.1 fire
===========

Fire can cause severe damage to people, buildings and their furnishings. In addition to direct damage caused by fire, consequential damage can be identified which, in particular for information technology, can reach a catastrophic extent in its damaging effect. For example, fire damage does not only occur at the point of fire. They can also arise in lower-lying parts of the building. When burning PVC, chlorine gases are produced, which together with the humidity and extinguishing water form hydrochloric acid. Distributing the hydrochloric acid vapors through the air conditioner can cause damage to sensitive electronic equipment located in a part of the building far from the fire. But even "normal" smoke can damage the IT system in this way.

A fire is not only caused by the negligent handling of fire (eg by uncontrolled open flames, welding and soldering work), but also by improper use of electrical equipment (eg unattended coffee machine, overloading of multiple sockets). Technical defects on electrical devices can also lead to a fire.

The spread of a fire can be favored by:

* Stopping fire doors by wedges,
improper storage of flammable materials (eg waste paper),
* Failure to comply with relevant standards and regulations for fire prevention,
* missing fire alarm systems (eg smoke detectors),
* missing or not ready-to-use manual fire extinguishers or automatic extinguishing systems (eg gas extinguishing systems),
* Insufficient preventative fire protection (eg lack of fire barriers on cable trays or use of unsuitable insulation materials for heat and sound insulation).
Examples:

* At the beginning of the 1990s, a large data center suffered catastrophic fire damage in the Frankfurt area, resulting in a complete breakdown.
* It often happens that small electrical appliances, such. As coffee machines or table lamps, improperly installed or installed and thereby cause fires.
