G 0.46 Loss of integrity of sensitive information
================================================== =====

The integrity of information can be affected by a variety of causes, such as: Through manipulation, personal misbehavior, application misuse, software malfunction, or delivery error.

* The aging of data media can lead to information losses.
* Transmission error Data transmission may result in transmission errors.
* MalwareBy malware, entire databases can be altered or destroyed.
* Incorrect entries Incorrect entries can lead to undesirable transactions, which are often not noticed for a long time. Attackers may try to manipulate data for their own purposes, eg. For example, to manipulate the index database, electronic archives can be used to archive or replay fake documents.
* Attackers may try to manipulate data for their own purposes, such as: For example, to manipulate the index database, electronic archives can be used to archive or replay fake documents.
* Manipulation of the Index Database may cause electronic archives to archive or reproduce forged documents.
When information is no longer integer, there can be a variety of problems:

* In the simplest case, information can no longer be read, ie further processed. Data can be inadvertently or intentionally falsified in such a way that false information is passed on. This could, for example, trigger bad-money transfers or false recipients, manipulate the sender's e-mail address, or more. If encrypted or compressed records lose their integrity (a bit change here), they may not The same is true for cryptographic keys, also here the change of a bit, so that the keys are useless. This also means that data can no longer be decrypted or checked for authenticity. Documents stored in electronic archives lose their authenticity if their integrity can not be proven.
* Data may be inadvertently or intentionally falsified in a way that will convey false information. This could, for example, trigger bad-money transfers or false recipients, manipulate the sender's e-mail address, or more. If encrypted or compressed records lose their integrity (a bit change here), they may not The same is true for cryptographic keys, also here the change of a bit, so that the keys are useless. This also means that data can no longer be decrypted or checked for authenticity. Documents stored in electronic archives lose their authenticity if their integrity can not be proven.
* If encrypted or compressed data sets lose their integrity (the change of one bit is enough), they may no longer be decrypted or unpacked. The same applies to cryptographic keys. Again, changing one bit is enough to make the keys unusable , This also means that data can no longer be decrypted or checked for authenticity. Documents stored in electronic archives lose their authenticity if their integrity can not be proven.
* The same applies to cryptographic keys, again, changing a bit is enough to make the keys unusable. This also means that data can no longer be decrypted or checked for authenticity. Documents stored in electronic archives lose their authenticity if their integrity can not be proven.
* Documents stored in electronic archives lose their authenticity if their integrity can not be proven.
