[toc]
 
G 0.21 Manipulation of hardware or software
===========================================

Manipulation refers to any form of targeted but secretive intervention to alter targets of all kinds unnoticed. Tampering with hardware or software can, among other things, be based on feelings of revenge in order to vandalize damage, to gain personal gain or to enrich it. The focus may be on devices of all kinds, accessories, data carriers (eg DVDs, USB sticks), applications, databases or the like.

Manipulations of hardware and software do not always lead to immediate damage. However, if the information processed is compromised, it can result in all sorts of security implications (loss of confidentiality, integrity or availability). Manipulations can be all the more effective the later they are discovered, the more comprehensive the perpetrators' knowledge is, and the more profound the impact on a work process is. The consequences range from unauthorized access to sensitive data to the destruction of data carriers or IT systems. Manipulations can also result in significant downtime.

Examples:

* In a Swiss finance company, an employee manipulated the application software for certain financial services. This allowed him to illegally obtain larger sums of money.
* By manipulating cash dispensers, attackers have repeatedly managed to read the data stored on payment cards without authorization. In connection with spied out PINs, these data were later abused to withdraw money at the expense of cardholders.
