[toc]
 
G 0.20 Information or products from unreliable sources
================================================== ===========

When using information, software, or equipment that comes from unreliable sources or whose origin and correctness have not been adequately tested, the use can be very dangerous. Among other things, this can lead to business-relevant information being based on an incorrect database, calculations yielding incorrect results or wrong decisions being taken. Likewise, the integrity and availability of IT systems may be affected.

Examples:

* A recipient can be tempted by e-mails whose origin he has not checked to take certain actions that affect him or others detrimental. For example, the email may contain interesting attachments or links that, when clicked, cause malware to be installed at the receiver. The sender of the e-mail can be forged or imitated by a known communication partner.
* The assumption that an indication is true because it is "in the newspaper" or "broadcast on TV" is not always justified. This can incorporate incorrect statements into business-critical reports.
* The reliability of information disseminated over the Internet varies widely. If versions are taken over from the Internet without further source checks, this can lead to incorrect decisions.
* Importing updates or patches from untrusted sources may result in unwanted side effects. If the origin of software is not verified, there is an increased risk that IT systems will become infected with malicious code.
