[toc]
 
G 0.29 Violation of laws or regulations
============================================

If information, business processes and IT systems of an institution are insufficiently secured (for example due to inadequate security management), this may result in violations of laws related to information processing or existing contracts with business partners. Which laws have to be respected depends on the type of institution or its business processes and services. Depending on where the locations of an institution are located, different national regulations may have to be observed. The following examples illustrate this:

* The handling of personal data in Germany is governed by a variety of regulations. These include the Federal Data Protection Act and the state data protection laws, but also a large number of sector-specific regulations.
* The management of a company is required to exercise due care in all business processes. This includes the observance of recognized security measures. In Germany, there are various legal provisions such as KonTraG (Law on Control and Transparency in the Corporate Division), GmbHG (Law on Limited Liability Companies) or AktG (Stock Corporation Act), from which corresponding action and liability obligations of the management and / or Derive management board of a company.
* Proper processing of accounting data is governed by various laws and regulations. In Germany, these include the German Commercial Code (eg HGB §§ 238 ff.) And the German Tax Code (AO). The proper processing of information naturally includes their secure processing. Both have to be proven regularly in many countries, for example by auditors in the context of the audit of the annual financial statements. If serious safety deficiencies are detected, a positive audit report can not be prepared.
* In many industries (such as the automotive industry), it is common for manufacturers to commit their suppliers to meet specific quality and safety standards. In this context, information security requirements are also increasing. If a contracting party violates contractually regulated security requirements, this can lead to contractual penalties, but also to contract cancellations or the loss of business relationships.
Only a few safety requirements arise directly from laws. However, the legislation is generally based on the state of the art as a general basis for assessing the level of safety that can be achieved. If the existing security measures in an institution are not in a healthy relationship to the values ​​to be protected and the state of the art, this can have serious consequences.
