[toc]
 
G 0.30 Unauthorized use or administration of devices and systems
================================================== =======================

Without appropriate mechanisms for access, access and access control, unauthorized use of devices and systems can not be practically prevented or detected. For IT systems, the basic mechanism is the identification and authentication of users. But even with IT systems with a strong identification and authentication function, unauthorized use is conceivable if the corresponding security features (passwords, chip cards, tokens, etc.) fall into the wrong hands. Many mistakes can also be made in granting and maintaining authorizations, for example, if authorizations are granted too far-reaching or unauthorized persons or if they are not updated in a timely manner.

Unauthorized persons may gain access to confidential information, manipulate or cause interference by unauthorized use of devices and systems.

A particularly important special case of unauthorized use is the unauthorized administration. If unauthorized persons change the configuration or operating parameters of hardware or software components, serious damage can result.

Example:

* When monitoring logging data, a network administrator encountered initially unexplained events that occurred on different days, but often in the early morning and afternoon. Upon closer inspection, it turned out that a wireless router was configured insecurely. Waiting people at the bus stop in front of the company building used this access to surf the Internet while waiting with their mobile devices.
